                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
The Homey Space Logo                                                              
Search
[                    ]
[INS::INS]
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
The Homey Space Logo                                                              
Search
[                    ]
 

  • Indoor Living
      □ Bathroom
      □ Bedroom
      □ Dining
      □ Indoor Fixtures
      □ Indoor Lighting
      □ Indoor Storage
      □ Kitchen
      □ Living
      □ Office
  • Outdoor Living
      □ Pool
      □ Garden Furniture
      □ Outdoor Fixtures
      □ Outdoor Lighting
      □ Outdoor Storage
  • Decor
      □ Decor By Holiday
          ☆ Christmas Decor
          ☆ Halloween Decor
          ☆ Easter Decor
          ☆ Thanksgiving Decor
      □ Decor By Room Decor
          ☆ Bathroom Decor
          ☆ Bedroom Decor
          ☆ Dining Room Decor
          ☆ Kitchen Decor
          ☆ Living Room Decor
          ☆ Office Decor
      □ Decor By Season
          ☆ Fall Decor
          ☆ Spring Decor
          ☆ Summer Decor
          ☆ Winter Decor
  • Home Guides
      □ Cleaning & Organizing
      □ DIY (Do It Yourself)
  • Plants
      □ Garden
      □ Houseplants
          ☆ Pet Friendly Houseplants
      □ Fruit & Vegetables
      □ Herbs
      □ Plantcare
      □ Planters
  • Tools
  • Reviews

The Beginners Guide To Growing Strawberries From Seed

Last Updated May 18, 2021 By Bella Zinti

Share 0
Tweet 0
Pin 0
Share0
Tweet0
Share0
Home » Plants » Fruit & Vegetables » Here

Nothing says summer like plump, juicy strawberries— especially when they're freshly
picked from your garden. The good news is, you don't need to be a gardening expert to
enjoy harvest after harvest of delicious strawberries. Strawberry plants are
relatively easy to grow and care for. Plus, there's no better feeling than knowing
the strawberries you're eating are a result of your own hard work.

In this quick guide, we're offering helpful tips, growing step-by-step instructions,
and answering commonly-asked questions about how to grow strawberries from seed.

Why Grow Strawberries from Seed

If you've got a bit of a green thumb, growing strawberries from seed is a great way
to save money on your favorite summer fruit. Purchasing strawberries at the grocery
store can get pretty pricey, especially when you're buying organic strawberries.

Additionally, using strawberry seeds allows you to grow special strawberry varieties
that aren't always available as seedlings at your neighborhood garden store. Growing
strawberry plants from seed will enable you to select the variety that's best suited
for your location, gardening style, and desired end-use. Currently, there are over
200 different strawberry varieties to choose from. A quick Google search should
provide information on which types are the best for where your area.

Growing Strawberries From Seeds

When to Start Strawberry Seeds

Starting strawberry seeds involves a bit of planning and patience. To ensure the
seedlings reach planting size by spring, you'll need to start your strawberry seeds
indoors around 10 to 12 weeks before the final spring frost. Strawberry seeds
germination alone can take up to 6 weeks.

Strawberry Seed Germination

For most home gardeners, the biggest challenge when it comes to growing strawberry
plants from seed is getting the seeds to germinate. Strawberry germination takes 1 to
6 weeks, so you'll need to get started in early spring.

To germinate, most strawberry seeds must go through a process called cold
stratification, a fancy gardening term for surviving winter-like weather conditions.
Before planting your seeds, you'll need to stratify them in cold temperatures. Some
varieties do not require stratification. If you are unsure if the variety you have
requires a stratification process or not, give the process a try anyway.

How to Stratify Strawberry Seeds

Stratifying strawberry seeds is a simple process that's essential for proper
germination. You can recreate these conditions by leaving your seeds in the
refrigerator for an extended period of time. Start by placing the seeds into a
tightly sealed plastic bag or glass jar. Place the container in the refrigerator and
leave it for 3 to 4 weeks.

After about a month, remove the cold seeds from the fridge but do not open the sealed
container. Allow them to come to room temperature while the bag is still unopened,
preventing unwanted condensation from collecting on the seeds as they warm up. For
best results, leave the container out on the kitchen counter for a full day before
you move on to planting.

How to Plant Strawberry Seeds

Once your strawberry seeds are fully prepped, it's time to start planting. Start by
filling seedling a tray with moist soil. While it's fine to use rich garden soil or
plain potting soil, a seed starting mixture provides the strawberry seed with the
best growing conditions possible, leading to heartier, healthier plants down the
line.

Next, place 3 to 4 seeds in each cell and gently press down. Do not cover the seeds
with additional soil. Strawberry seeds are quite small, so they need to be planted on
or near the surface of the soil.

Once you've finished planting your seeds, mist the soil so it's just barely moist.
Place the trays in a warm spot in your house where they'll receive plenty of sunshine
or growing light throughout the day. Keep the soil evenly moist, but don't let it get
soggy.

Now comes the waiting part. In general, strawberry seeds take between 14 to 28 days
to germinate. To give your young strawberry seedlings a boost, feed them with a bit
of half-strength fertilizer every two weeks or so to encourage growth.

Transplanting Strawberry Seedlings

Your strawberry seedlings are ready to transplant when they've become anywhere
between 2 to 3 inches tall and have begun to develop a root system. Once your
seedlings are ready and the final spring frosts have passed, it's time to move your
plants outside.

The young plants have grown accustomed to stable indoor growing conditions, so you'll
need to harden them off before planting. Start acclimating your seeds by placing the
tray in a shady spot outside for just an hour. Avoid direct sunlight exposure that
can scorch the seedlings' delicate leaves and harsh winds that can damage the plant's
structure. Gradually increase the exposure time over the next 7 to 14 days until
they're hardened off.

Once your seedlings are fully adjusted, they're ready to be planted in their final
location. Strawberries aren't very picky, so they can be grown in indoor pots,
hanging baskets, outdoor containers, or traditional garden rows. Most varieties of
strawberries prefer 6 to 8 hours of direct sun each day. While the plants don't grow
deep roots, some varieties like to sprawl out as they produce fruit.

Gently transplant each seedling into a pot, hanging basket, or row in a prepared
garden, spacing them 8 to 12 inches apart. Depending on how long your growing season
is, these strawberry plants may not fruit until the fall of their first year (and in
short-season climates, the following spring).

How to Care for Strawberry Plants

Caring for a strawberry plant is relatively easy. Experienced growers know that you
can enjoy flavor-packed strawberries all summer long with consistent water,
fertilizer, light, temperature, and care.

Strawberries love water, especially during the late summer when the plants produce
heaps of juicy berries and prepare for winter dormancy. Water your strawberry plants
daily, avoiding wetting the leaves.

Use fertilizer monthly to give your strawberry plants a boost throughout the growing
season. To ensure your strawberries are safe to eat, always rinse them before eating
and double-check that the fertilizer you've used is suitable for fruits and
vegetables. Alternatively, you can add nutrients to the soil using organic plant food
or compost.

Keep your pots or beds covered in mulch to reduce your watering frequency and help
prevent weeds and diseases. Stay diligent about removing weeds and plucking runners
during the first year. Once your plants are well-established, you can start to let a
few runners develop. Gardeners can even transplant these runners to new locations
instead of seeding new plants altogether.

                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
strawberry plant                                                                                   

Harvesting Strawberries

Now comes the fun part: finally getting to harvest (and even more importantly, eat)
your strawberries!

Your berries should be ripe about a month after your strawberry flowers have been
pollinated. As soon as your strawberries turn fully red, they're ready to pick. Any
that has gone too far can still b e used in many delicious ways, including jams,
sauces, pies, and other desserts.

It's best to pick your strawberries in the morning when the weather is still cool. Be
gentle when picking to avoid damaging the plant or disturbing the berries growing
nearby.

You should always rinse everything off before eating to remove things like mulch or
fertilizer that may still be lingering around. To store your strawberries, wrap them
in a dry paper towel and refrigerate them in a sealed Tupperware.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The Homey Space is proud to be reader-supported. If you buy through our links, we may
earn a commission at no cost to you.

           
           
           
           
           
           
Author Imag

About the author

Bella Zinti

Bella has a Bachelors degree in interior design, is a master gardener. She designs
nourishing outdoor & indoor spaces guided by the practice of Feng Shui.

[INS::INS]

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE

A Ultimate Guide Growing Strawberries Indoors

White Princess Philodendron Care Guide

Philodendron Gloriosum Care Guide

Philodendron Birkin Care Guide

Philodendron Squamiferum Care Guide

Lipstick Plant 101: The Ultimate Guide To Growing Gorgeous Lipstick Plants

Get Inspirations Right To You Inbox

Join our mailing list and get inspired!

[                    ]
[                    ]
Sign Up
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
The Homey Space Lo
 

  • About
  • Contact
  • Affiliate Disclosure

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  • Terms & Conditions
  • Privacy Policy

Copyright © 2024 The Homey Space, all rights reserved.

