where do I begin?
With a capitol letter, ending in a period.
the thing of it is, it doesn't work if you don't do it.
Or if you don't do it right.
I'm just another face in the croud.
Did you know, I have no idea what I'm talking about right now?
Ah man, how do I do this?
I'm talking to myselfk, semipermanently.

working is hard.  Ooh!  A bird just exploded into view,
careening toward me before blasting away into the
charcoal blue-grey skies.
Everybody needs an editor.  Perhaps I should practice?
Nay, now is the time for typing.  No going back; that kid of
multitasking is bad for flow.  The Critic can go home.  The
Creator must be inc control.  Proofreading this will be its
own reward.

It sucks to be irritated all the time.  It is a burdon to
desire life to be a certain way, to behave.
Life becomes tiresome when the soul is attached to
any part of it.  The weight of the fallen vessel falls
around me.  It slowly zooms by, bye bye, a billion opportunities
escaping forever.  Let them.  Be selective about how I
interact with them. with it.  It waill all be over soon.


Nothing good can come of this.  To be this messed up.
Can't pretend I never did.  Is once to much?  how many times?
Pulling out or putting up.  Papa tray hard, so damn hard
Giving in or giving up, Mama try hard, so damn hard
Something always gotta give, rotten through, earth is gravel
beneath you.
The Wretched aren't a wreched few, gutter's full
of veterans and ashes and the old.
an old way of life, decrepit, deceiptful and devisive.
We gotta give it up, every single one.
We gotta give up
    Every kind of masturbation
    Every fast food
    It gives you constipation, and that's bad for you.
    Every alchohol, including isopropyl
    Every medicine, including laughter
    Every thing that's good or bad for us
    and every single way of life,
    we call it
dyin'.
    we call it
dyin'.
    we call it
every single day of your life ends in
sleepy eyes or a burst of sunshinne.
until the day you lungs and heart stop
you'll might try and stop it from happeningn,
but it gonna happen.
        Don't forget,
        it could happen at your hand
        humans can't stand a lot of pain,
        and this life is full if it,
        may not where you live,
        and maybe not with who ya know,
        but it's coming
        and the higher you are the father ya fall.
    Every single genereation
    Every single human being, and almost every animal
    Have a final destination real soon
    Every one ya know, (bassically no one)
    Every one ya don't know (basically everyone)
    and one day the ocean gonna boil
            and every constallation gonna fail
            after humanity

