Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Sweet Corn: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[corn-1605664_1920]                                                                                                                 
Photo Credit
Pixabay
Botanical Name
Zea mays
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Bloom Time
Summer
Flower Color
White
Yellow
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Sweet Corn

Catherine Boeckmann
June 27, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

How do we grow the sweet corn of our dreams—full, juicy, and oh-so-delicious? It’s
disheartening when there are gaps left in our cobs’ kernels. Corn needs to be planted
properly for optimal pollination. Here’s how to plant, grow, and harvest sweet corn
in the garden.

About Sweet Corn

Sweet corn is a tender, warm-season annual crop that produces ears of yellow, white,
or bi-colored kernels. Native to the Americas, sweet corn has been cultivated for
thousands of years; it’s famous as one of the Three Sisters—corn, beans, and
squash—grown by Native Americans.

A long, frost-free growing season (60 to 100 frost-free days) is necessary to grow
and harvest corn. Don’t be tempted to sow too early, though. Mid to late spring is
just fine once any chance of frosts is long gone.

And corn is a grass! A member of the Poaceae family, corn relies on wind, not bees or
insects, to pollinate its flowers. This is why we plant corn in blocks of short
rows instead of long, single rows. 

Types of Sweet Corn

For a continuous supply of sweet corn, plant early, mid-season, and late varieties or
plant every 2 or 3 weeks.  

Have you ever had the intensely disappointing experience of tucking into a
juicy-looking sweet corn cob only to find it tastes bland? This is the number one
reason why paying a little bit more for your seeds really pays dividends. Hybrid or 
F1 varieties of sweet corn may cost a bit more, but they’re worth every penny,
yielding cobs with a superior flavor, especially if you pick one of the supersweet
types. Varieties bred for sweetness hold their taste for longer too, but the sooner
you cook them after picking, the better.

Learn more about the different varieties of corn below. 

Read Next

  • Avoid Common Corn Problems for a Bumper Harvest!
  • A Cornucopia of Corn Facts
  • A Cook's Garden: Corn, Okra, Shallots

Planting

The most common reasons for slow growth include poor light levels, not enough
moisture, or a lack of nutrients. Plant in full sun (at least 6 to 8 hours of direct
sunlight). Soil needs to be consistently moist (though well-draining),as corn tends
to suck up a lot of water. Corn is a hungry plant, so it’s important to enrich beds
with lots of organic matter, such as garden compost (ideally in the fall).

When to Plant Corn

  • Most gardeners sow corn directly in the garden soil (versus indoors) so that
    their sensitive roots aren’t disturbed when transplanting.
  • Corn is very sensitive to frost; do not plant soil temperature is at least 60°F
    (16°C), or 65°F (18°C) for super-sweet varieties. Usually, this is 2 or 3 weeks
    after the last frost in spring. See our Planting Calendar for corn based on
    average frost dates.
      □ If you live in an area with a shorter growing season, choose an early variety
        that will mature well before the first fall frost. The ground can be warmed
        by a black plastic cover; sow seeds through holes in the plastic.
  • A couple of weeks after planting your first round of corn, plant another round in
    order to extend the harvest.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Corn in the garden                                                              

How to Plant Corn

  • To speed germination, moisten seeds, wrap them in moist paper towels, and store
    them in a plastic bag for 24 hours. 
  • Because corn is wind-pollinated, it’s essential to plant in a block, rather than
    a single row. For decent pollination, we recommend a modest block of, say, 10 to
    50 plants. This maximizes the chances of the pollen released from the male
    tassels at the top of the plants drifting down into contact with the female silks
    lower down. Incomplete or inconsistent kernel development, with the cobs only
    partly or sporadically filled, is down to poor pollination. The silks protruding
    from the end of each cob are responsible for carrying the pollen down to the
    kernels. One strand connects to one kernel, so for complete fill, every strand of
    the silk must be pollinated.
  • Sow seeds about 1½ to 2 inches deep and 12 inches apart in rows 2½ to 3 feet
    apart. Don’t plant too close together or you run the risk of disappointingly
    small cobs.
  • You may choose to fertilize at planting time with a general purpose (10-10-10
    fertilizer); corn is meant to grow rapidly. 
  • Water well at planting time.

Sowing Corn Indoors

If you’re going to start seeds early, sow the seeds in pots under the protection of a
greenhouse, hoop house, or cold frame. This means you can begin sowing three to four
weeks before your last frost date, giving you a head start on corn sown outdoors—a
huge advantage for areas with shorter growing seasons.

Sow eight to ten seeds half an inch deep into four-inch-wide pots, or sow two seeds
per module in a plug tray and remove the weakest of the two seedlings when they
emerge. Keep the potting soil moist as they grow on.

Harden off the plants as your recommended planting time approaches by placing them
outside for increasingly longer spells over the course of about a week. Plants should
be at least six inches tall by the time they’re transplanted outdoors.

Check out this video for great tips on growing juicy corn:

Growing

  • Consistent moisture will encourage bigger, fatter ears of corn, so it’s hard to
    over-emphasize the importance of this. Keep corn well watered, as it has shallow
    roots and can become stressed by drought. About 2 inches of water per week is
    sufficient; water more if conditions are especially hot or if your soil is sandy.
    If the soil remains dry, soak the soil again. When watering, aim at the base of
    plants to avoid problems with fungal diseases.
  • Mulch helps to reduce evaporation around the plants.
  • Corn’s roots are shallow and can easily be damaged by hoeing. Instead, weed your
    corn by hand for as long as you’re still able to get between the plants without
    damaging them.  Then, apply several inches of mulch.
  • Corn sometimes produces aerial roots a few inches above the soil. These are not
    meant to absorb water or nutrients but rather to stabilize the tall stalk. If
    this happens, mound soil up over the roots to keep them covered, or just cover
    the whole area with a mulch of compost, which will help feed the plants, too. 
  • Support stalks in windy places. Mounding the soil around the base of 12-inch-tall
    plants will help. If you do notice plants getting rocked about in the wind,
    consider tying them to stakes. 
  • Wind pollination is critical to developing full cobs of kernels. To help this
    along, gently shake the stalks of the plants every few days for as long as the
    tassels are viable to increase the chances of every silk being pollinated. 
    Mornings are best. Learn more about corn pollination, including how to
    hand-pollinate to guarantee pollination success.
  • Watch for signs of nitrogen deficiency (yellowing leaves) and respond with quick
    side-dressings of a nitrogen-rich fertilizer such as fish emulsion. 

Note: Tillers, or “suckers,” are secondary shoots that may develop low on the stalk
later in the season. They do not adversely affect the main stalk.

Types

Types of Sweet Corn

There are four main types of hybrid sweet corn: sugary (su), sugar-enhanced (se),
shrunken (sh, sh2), and synergistic (sy). Each one contains a different level of
sucrose, changing the flavor and texture of the corn.The type of corn will be listed
right on the seed packet.

It’s important to be aware of which type of corn you’re growing—not only because of
the sugar content, but also due to how easily the types can cross-pollinate. If the
wrong combination of types cross-pollinates, the ears that are produced may be of
subpar quality.

  • Sugary (su) sweet corn is the classic sweet corn. Sugary varieties
    grow vigorously and are stress resistant. The kernels aren’t too sweet and are
    said to have a “traditional” taste. However, the sugars in sugary sweet corn
    quickly turn to starch after the ears are picked, so they need to be eaten right
    after picking. Do not plant near shrunken or synergistic types.
  • Sugar-enhanced (se) sweet corn is slightly sweeter than sugary varieties. They
    keep their sweetness for a longer period of time after harvest (a few days) than
    sugary varieties. They grow well with few issues. Do not plant near
    shrunken types.
  • Shrunken (sh, sh2) sweet corn—also called “supersweet”—are the sweetest
    varieties, containing two to three times more sugar than sugary varieties. The
    sugar in their kernels lasts even longer after harvest (up to a week) than the
    other types, but kernels tend to be more crunchy and not taste as “corny.”
    Shrunken types are also more finicky overall. Do not plant them near any other
    types; hybrid kernels turn out starchy and tough.
  • Synergistic (sy) sweet corn combines sugar-enhanced with one of the other two
    types to create varieties that have the best of both worlds. Synergistic types
    tend to have very sweet, tender kernels with a good taste and some synergistic
    varieties can keep up to a week after harvest. Do not plant near sugary or
    shrunken types. 

Recommended varieties include:

  • ‘Argent’: sugar-enhanced variety, good taste. White kernels.
  • ‘Iochief’: midseason, normal-sugar variety. Yellow kernels.
  • ‘Luther Hill’: dwarf, normal-sugar variety. Produces 4- to 6-inch ears on 4- to
    5-foot stalks. White kernels. Grow at least nine dwarf plants in a block of three
    or four rows.
  • ‘Silver Queen’: normal-sugar variety. Resistant to some bacterial diseases.
    White kernels.
  • ‘Sweet Sunshine’: supersweet variety. Disease resistant and high yield.
    Yellow kernels.

Corn can be a feast for the eyes, too! Look for these ornamental varieties:

  • ‘Glass Gem’: Sporting multi-colored, semi-transparent kernels, this is a favorite
    for kids.
  • ‘Painted Mountain’: Looking for the classic “maize” colors? This variety has a
    great diversity of natural tones. Check out our video to learn more about growing
    and using painted mountain corn. 

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
[corn-jewel_full_width]                                                         

Harvesting

  • The warmer the air, the more quickly corn matures. It is usually ripe about 15 to
    23 days after silking and sooner if temperatures are exceptionally high.
  • When two ears grow on a stalk, the upper ear matures 1 to 2 days before the
    lower one.
  • At harvest, ears should be rounded or blunt, not pointed, with tassels turning
    brown and kernels full and milky.
      □ To test, pull down some husk and pierce a kernel with a fingernail. If it’s
        white, or milky, it’s ready. The milk stage is brief; in hot weather (over
        85°F/29°C), sweet corn is at peak for only 1 to 2 days, so check it
        frequently. Corn harvested a few days after milk stage will not be as sweet.
  • Pull ears downward and twist to remove from stalk.
  • Sweet corn varieties (except for supersweet varieties) lose their sweetness soon
    after harvest. Immediately after picking, prepare the ears for eating
    or preservation.
  • Prepare for eating or preserving immediately after picking. Enjoy your harvested
    corncobs as soon as you can. The quicker they’re cooked, the sweeter they
    will be!
  • If immature corn suffers a late-season frost, the plants and cobs can be damaged
    and result in the death of the plant or poor-tasting corn.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Corn cob on the plant                                                           

How to Store Corn

  • Sweet corn freezes well, especially if removed from ears before freezing. Learn
    how to properly freeze corn.
  • Corn can also be harvested for other purposes!

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Baby corn is produced from regular corn plants that are harvested early, while
    the ears are immature. Regular sweet corn, sugar-enhanced sweet corn, and
    supersweet corn varieties can be used, along with a few varieties that are
    specific for baby corn.
  • A cornstalk grows slowly until it reaches about 24 inches; then it grows 3 to 4
    inches per day in hot weather!
  • Different traditions have arisen as to the best time to plant corn. Many lunar
    gardeners plant when the Moon is waxing to encourage vigorous, healthy growth.
    However, according to another tradition, it is said that corn planted under a
    waning Moon grows more slowly but yields bigger ears. Learn more about gardening
    by the Moon!
  • If your corn shucks harder than usual, prepare for a cold winter.
  • Corn is one of the Three Sisters; its growing style pairs perfectly with beans
    and squash. Learn more about companion planting.
  • Corn is great for eating but also has so many other uses including medicinal.
    Learn more about corn for natural health.
  • Learn more fun, witty facts about corn.

Pests/Diseases

                               Corn Pests and Diseases
   Pest/     Type            Symptoms                    Control/Prevention
  Disease
                   Yellow/brown/purple/black
                   spots on leaves; sunken,     Destroy infected plants; choose
                   dark spots on stems; spots   resistant varieties; provide good
Anthracnose Fungus may develop a salmon-pink,   drainage; avoid overhead watering;
                   gelatinous mass; eventually, apply compost; use mulch; rotate
                   rot; in corn, tops die back  crops
                   and stalks rot
                                                Remove caterpillars; apply vegetable
                   On corn, eaten silks and     oil to point where silks enter ears a
   Corn            kernels; excrement; larvae   week after silks first emerge; select
 earworms   Insect also attack tomatoes and     corn varieties with tight husks; grow
                   other plants, eating fruit/  an early variety; add native plants
                   pods/leaves/flowers          to invite beneficial insects; till
                                                soil in fall; spray Bt
 Cucumber          Holes in leaves; plants      Handpick; mulch heavily; use row
  beetles   Insect stunted/die; larvae feed on  covers; destroy plants infected with
 (spotted)         roots; may spread bacterial  bacterial wilt
                   wilt
                                                Handpick; in spring before planting,
                   Wilting; severed stems of    cultivate soil to reduce larvae; wrap
                   seedlings just above or      a 4-inch-wide collar made from
 Cutworms   Insect below soil line; whole       cardboard or newspaper around each
                   seedlings disappear          stem, sinking 2 inches into soil;
                                                weed; use row covers; destroy crop
                                                residue
                                                Trap in tuna can filled with 1/2 inch
  Earwigs   Insect Many small holes in leaves/  of fish oil and sunk in soil such
                   stems; corn silks eaten      that edge is slightly above ground
                                                level; remove plant debris
                                                Scatter human-scented items, coyote
   Deer     Mammal Chewed stalks (especially on urine spray, or blood meal around
                   young plants); chewed ears   plants; enclose corn with fence (at
                                                least 8 feet tall)
                   Yellow, angular spots on
                   upper leaf surfaces that
   Downy           turn brown; white/purple/    Remove plant debris; choose resistant
  mildew    Fungus gray cottony growth on leaf  varieties; ensure good air
                   undersides only; distorted   circulation; avoid overhead watering
                   leaves or corn tassels;
                   defoliation
   Flea            Numerous tiny holes in       Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
  beetles   Insect leaves, like birdshot from a native plants to invite beneficial
                   shotgun                      insects
                   Leaves skeletonized (only    Handpick; use row covers; plant tansy
 Japanese   Insect veins remain); in corn,      near infested plants to lure beetles
  beetles          damage to husks/kernels/     away
                   silk; grubs feed on roots
                   Broken stalks; half-eaten,   Scatter human-scented items, coyote
 Raccoons   Mammal missing ears                 urine spray, or blood meal around
                                                plants
                                                Trap by digging 2- to 4-inch-deep
                                                holes every 3 to 10 feet, fill with
                                                mix of germinating beans/peas or
                   Seeds hollowed; seedlings    potato sections as bait, cover with
 Wireworms  Insect severed; stunting/wilting;   soil or a board, in 1 week uncover
                   roots eaten                  and kill collected wireworms; sow
                                                seeds in warm soil for quick
                                                germination; provide good drainage;
                                                remove plant debris; rotate crops

Recipes

Hartwell Farm Corn Pudding
Corn Custard
Corn and Black Bean Pitas
Summer Corn Cakes
Summer Corn Salad

Cooking Notes

  • If too much hot pepper or spice has been added to a soup or stew, adding a can of
    sweet corn can help.
  • Popcorn is also a favorite snack if you have leftover kernels. Learn how to make
    homemade popcorn here.

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Embedded thumbnail for Avoid Common Corn Problems for a Bumper Harvest!                                                             

Avoid Common Corn Problems for a Bumper Harvest!

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[corn_0]                                                                

A Cornucopia of Corn Facts

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[photo_2578]                                                            

A Cook's Garden: Corn, Okra, Shallots

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[squash-butternut-vines_dleonis-getty]                                  

How to Grow Winter Squash Plants: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Embedded thumbnail for Top 10 Money-Saving Vegetables to Grow at Home                                                               

Top 10 Money-Saving Vegetables to Grow at Home

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[pepper-2871165_1920_full_width]                                        

Vegetables to Grow in Hot Weather

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Liana (not verified)

5 months ago

My corn is about 6ft tall and just starting to develop tassels. This is my first time
growing corn, and just realized my stalks don’t have ears, as well as having some
yellowing at the base. I looked it up and my best guess is a nutrition deficiency, so
I’ve added some nitrogen and more calcium. My question is, at this point if the issue
was nutrients, is there enough time for ears to develop before the tassels are no
good? Should I wrap the tassels to preserve the male pollen for when there are ears?

  • Reply

The Editors

5 months ago

In reply to My corn is about 6ft tall… by Liana (not verified)

If you have tassels, it’s not pollination. And if your corn looks tall and green but
lacks ears, it might be overcrowded, and your plantings are too thick. However, the
yellowing that you mention, plus the lack of ears, does indeed suggest nitrogen
deficiency. It’s hard for us to diagnose from afar, and you should call your local
county extension services. In terms of a solution, there are mixed results on
late-season nitrogen application for corn. If your corn already had a nice nitrogen
application in fall/spring, and it’s the weather called some leaching, it may work.
If the corn lacked nitrogen all along, it probably wouldn’t make up the yield. But
you might as well try it. Here is a good reference from the Purdue extension.

 

  • Reply

Dede Wilson (not verified)

1 year 2 months ago

We are going corn crazy over here. We educate people about the low FODMAP diet, and
there is a lot of confusion about what you can and cannot eat. Corn is so versatile,
from fresh to all the various dried and ground versions, we absolutely love it. If
anyone is suffering with irritable bowel syndrome and/or following the low FODMAP
diet, and loves corn, check out our article, Is Corn Low FODMAP?, and let us know if
you have any questions! https://www.fodmapeveryday.com/is-cheese-low-fodmap/

  • Reply

Ello (not verified)

1 year 4 months ago

I really appreciate this article on corn and have a question. This is our first year
having grown popping corn which was going really great till some very adorable
squirrels got into it and after trying a bunch of different ways to keeps them out of
the corn we finally decided to pull the fully ready ones (not dried) and are hoping
it’s possible to dry them inside but is it possible? The rest we left with cages over
the ears of corn. Not mad at the squirrels bc it’s just nature but hoping we will
still be able to have something to show for it. Thank you in advance

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 4 months ago

In reply to I really appreciate this… by Ello (not verified)

Dear Ello,

Thank you for your note about your furry wild popcorn-loving neighbors. Yes, if the
corn is ripe, you can dry the ears inside. Here is our guide to growing popcorn 
including advice for harvesting and drying. Good luck and happy popping! 

—The Editors

  • Reply

Backyard Farme… (not verified)

1 year 4 months ago

This is my first year growing corn in my backyard garden.

Trying to find out what to do after harvest has been quite difficult/information is
unclear.

Do we leave the stalks in the ground for a while after harvest? Remove entirely/to a
certain height?

Thanks,

Ontario, Canada 🇨🇦

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 4 months ago

In reply to This is my first year… by Backyard Farme… (not verified)

You will want to remove the stalks soon after harvest. There are a number of pests
that will use what remains after harvest as a winter home and by removing the stalks
you will greatly reduce their chances of survival. But you have a few options of what
to do with your stalks.

You can cut them down and put them in your compost pile. We suggest cutting them up
some to increase the rate of decomposition. You will then want to till the stalk nubs
back into the soil. You can also till all of it into the soil. There are a lot of
great nutrients that remain in corn stalks and it will provide good organic matter
for next year’s plantings once it breaks down.

And if you want to think ahead, cut some of the stalks and dry them upside down and
they will make for great decor when fall rolls around!

  • Reply

Louise McIntosh (not verified)

1 year 7 months ago

Could you please post how you boil corn and how you barbeque it. How long should you
boil it for or leave it on the barbeque. Thank you

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 6 months ago

In reply to Could you please post how… by Louise McIntosh (not verified)

Hi, Louise. When you boil corn on the cob, allow the water to come to a full boil and
then add in the ears of corn. Cook it for 5 minutes. When it comes to cooking corn on
the cob on the grill there are several methods. Try this: peel the corn and remove
the silk. Pull the husks back up and then soak the ears in salted water for about 10
minutes. Remove and make sure to shake off any excess water. Place the ears on the
grill, close the lid, and turn every 6 minutes. Your corn should be ready after
20 minutes.

  • Reply

Stephen Stewart (not verified)

2 years 4 months ago

All in the article is well and good...BUT what about the GMO corn that does not have
a natural taste ?? The artificial over sweer sugar taste that makes some of us
nausiated after 2 bites as opposed to heirloom corn. All of the corn at the
supermarket and many farm produce stands is GMO corn and the GMO corn is un natural
and has a strange taste

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
