Skip to content
MENU
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
Growit Buildit Logo               
Search
Search for: [                    ]
  • About
  • Native Plants Submenu Toggle
      □ Complete Native Plant Listing
      □ Where To Buy Native Plants In The United States
      □ Trees & Shrubs
      □ Liatris
      □ Lobelia
      □ Milkweeds
      □ Native Grasses
      □ Botany Guide & Soil Science
  • Invasive Plants
  • Compost
  • Gardening Tips
  • DIY
  • YouTube Channel
  • Facebook Group
  • BLOGGING & YOUTUBE TIPS
  • RECOMMENDED PRODUCTS
  • Support Our Work – BECOME A PATRON
  • Food
  • Sitemap

How To Grow Pawpaws From Seed (>90% Germination Rate)

Written by Joe Foster in Native Plants


Look, I’m going to cut to the chase. I’ve been growing Pawpaw trees from seed for
several years, and have refined my methods to achieve germination rates above 90%. I
will show you exactly what to do, to germinate and grow Pawpaws from seed. All
pictures in this article are my own.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
grow pawpaws from seed                                                                                    

You’re not going to find a better source on the web for this, and all pictures in
this article are my own. My germination rates are above 90%, and yours can be too.
But in this guide I’m going to cover how to gather, sterilize, and store the seed.
Then, I will cover the methods you can use to break dormancy and plant them. Finally
I will go through my own process, as I am pulling ripe pawpaw seeds from ones I
forage to germination the following year.

Pawpaw Trees

Since common names of plants can sometimes cause confusion, please know that the tree
I call the Pawpaw is scientifically known as Asimina triloba. It is native to North
America, from Texas to Florida and North to Michigan, New York, and Southern Ontario.
If you would like to know more of the ‘nitty gritty’ details you can read my profile
on Pawpaw Trees^[1]^[2].

Gather seed from ripe pawpaws

Seed can be gathered from ripe Pawpaw trees in late Summer or early Fall. And when I
say ‘ripe’ Pawpaws, I mean it. You want the seed to come from pawpaws that are
naturally falling from the tree, as that way you know the seed should be fully
developed.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
pawpaws                                                                                                   

If you gather Pawpaws before they are ripe, the seed inside has not had time to fully
mature. The viability of the seed will be lower than that of a seed from a fully ripe
pawpaw.

Determining if pawpaws are ripe

Pawpaws are ripe when they naturally fall from the tree. But since most of us don’t
have Pawpaw trees in their backyard, you may not have the opportunity to wait around
for them to begin falling.

However, you can employ my method to know if they are ripe when I forage. Simply
shake the tree in a gentle manner, and if pawpaws are ripe, they will fall. If you
violently shake the tree, more pawpaws will surely fall, but they will not always be
ripe. And if a pawpaw is taken too early from a tree it may never fully ripen.

Harvesting seed from pawpaws

To get the seed, simply cut the pawpaw in half lengthwise using a paring or steak
knife. Then, pop the seeds out from the Pawpaw. The seeds often have a thin film on
them that will be quite slippery, and is attached at the base of the seed. I
personally like to remove this with my knife. But since the coating is slippery, be
careful when doing so.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
pawpaw seeds                                                                                              

Pawpaw seeds

Sterilizing pawpaw seed

Once you have the seed out, give it a quick rinse in water. Then, soak the seed in a
10% bleach/water solution for a minute. After one minute, remove from the solution
and rinse again under tap water.

This step will sterilize the pawpaw seed and kill any fungus. After this, you can
either store the seed, plant it, or cold stratify it in the refrigerator.

Storing seed

Pawpaw seed can be stored for some years without losing much viability. The
University of Kentucky found that Pawpaw seeds remain viable for several years when
stored in a sealed container under refrigeration^[3]. So, you can use any air-tight
container to store your seeds in the fridge. I have never stored mine more than a few
months before sowing them, and usually just use a zip-lock bag.

Cold stratification

Pawpaw seeds have a dormancy mechanism that will prevent them from germinating. To
overcome this, the seed must experience a period of cold-moist stratification. The
USDA and other researchers recommend 120 days^[4]^[5], which also matches my
experience.

To achieve the cold stratification, you either need to Winter Sow or use the
refrigerator. Below I will discuss stratifying in the refrigerator first:

Cold stratifying in the fridge using sand

You can do this by mixing up sand and sphagnum peat moss in a 80/20 mix, and
moistening it. The final mixture should be wet enough that when you squeeze it with
your hand only a few drops of water fall out. Place a layer of this mixture in a
sealable container or plastic bag, then lay your seeds on top of it. Then, put
another layer 1-2″ deep of the moist sand on top, and seal the container. Label it,
then place it in the fridge for approximately four months or until early Spring. At
that point you can plant your seeds 1-2″ deep in containers or in the ground at a
location with appropriate growing conditions.

Cold stratifying in the refrigerator using moist paper towels

Normally you would want to use sand to stratify pawpaw seeds, as the large seed size
makes it difficult to keep from drying out using paper towels. But I have made a
modified method that work.

First, you use two full sheet paper towels, water, and a zip-lock bag. Lay both paper
towels down on a clean surface, and spray with water. You want the paper towel to get
moist enough so that when you squeeze it a few drops of water fall out. Once you’ve
done this, lay out one towel flat and open on a clean surface. Then, place the second
moist towel directly on top.

Next you will place your pawpaw seeds in one quadrant of the towel, then fold it
three times so that the seeds are completely surrounded by several layers of paper
towel. Place the folded up moist towel in a ziplock bag and seal it. Then, as you
probably guessed, you just label it and store it in the refrigerator for 120 days.

Winter sowing pawpaw seeds

To winter sow papaws, we will let mother nature do the cold stratifying for us. It is
very easy, simply plant your seeds 1-2″ deep^[5] in a container that can hold at
least six inches of soil (Pawpaw trees have a taproot and need the space right away
after germinating).

Place your container in a location that will be exposed to cool temperatures, yet
protected from the coldest parts of the winter. An unheated garage or shed typically
works great for this, as you can also monitor to make sure the soil doesn’t
completely dry out. I like to give a small amount of water to each of my pots once a
week.

Once spring approaches and the chances of prolonged freezing have passed, move the
containers outside to a location that gets morning sun and afternoon shade.
Germination will occur in mid-summer, usually around the first week of July for me in
zone 6 (Southern Pennsylvania).

My method to germinate and grow Pawpaws from seed

Ok, so the way I have had the highest success in germinating Pawpaws is to do a
combination of cold moist stratification and winter sowing. What I do is to harvest
and sterilize the seed as described above, and then start cold stratifying it in the
fridge (usually in September/October).

1 – Harvesting seed from fresh Pawpaws

I collect seed from pawpaws as I eat them. I pop them out with a knife, or I spit
them out onto a plate while eating them. After I’ve eaten my pawpaw, I remove the
slippery coating with a knife or my fingernail.

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[pawpaw-eat-spoon]                

I will soak them in a 10% bleach and water solution for a minute. Then, simply rinse
them under tap water. It can be helpful to use a colander or strainer to do this
step.

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[pawpaw-soaking-bleach-300x169]   

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[rinse-pawpaw-300x169]            

2 – Storing & stratifying seed

If I’m not planning to plant the seed that winter, then I will simply place them in a
zip-lock bag and store them in the fridge with the year of harvest. But if I plan to
grow those trees the following Spring, I will begin cold stratifying them
immediately.

As I mentioned before, you can cold stratify the seed using moist sand or paper
towels. I tend to use two full-sheet paper towels with 10-30 pawpaw seeds. The first
step is to thoroughly moisten both paper towels. Since you’ve sterilized your seed,
then the chances of having fungus or mold form is low, so you can get them really wet
if you like.

So, my stratification method prior to winter sowing goes like this:

  • Fold one full-sheet paper towel in half and lay your pawpaw seeds on half. Then,
    fold it over and spray it with a water until thoroughly moist.
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
      □ [strat-pp-1]      [strat-pp-2]     
  • Lay the other full sheet paper towel down, and place the first one in the center.
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
      □ [strat-pp-3]     
  • Fold the paper towel around the first that contains the seeds. This is sort of
    like ‘wrapping it up’.
  • Squirt the second paper towel with water until it is moistened.
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
      □ [strat-pp-4]     
  • Place in a 1-quart zip-lock bag and label. Then place in the refrigerator until
    ready to winter sow
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
      □ [strat-pp-5]     

I made an infographic below that shows the entire process. Click on the image for a
pdf.

                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
stratify pawpaw s

3 – Planting, winter storing

I generally winter sow all my seeds around Christmas, or early January and Pawpaws
are no exception. Since I begin the stratification in the previous step, it is ok for
me to wait. Otherwise, you could just plant them in late Summer/Fall when you eat
them.

For planting pawpaw seeds, you want to use a deep container. I like to use 14″ deep
pots, but 6″ should be the minimum. You need to do this because Pawpaws produce a
taproot, and you want this to have room to grow down into the pot.

The planting depth of Pawpaw seeds is 1-2″ deep. I like to fill my pots with moist
potting soil, leaving about 3″ from the top. Then I just lay the pawpaw seeds on top
of the soil, then cover with 1-2″, leaving a 1″ gap at the top. Press the soil firm.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
planting pawpaw seeds                                                                                     

Filled pots on the left, unfilled (but seed visible) on the right.

Where to place your containers

Pawpaw seeds need 120 days of cold-moist conditions before they germinate. But, they
cannot be frozen or else the seed will die. I learned this the hard way one year
where we had several weeks of freezing temperatures – as in the temperature never got
above freezing! And, back in 2022 I had a number of containers along the north side
of my home with pawpaw seeds. Well, the pots turned into giant ice cubes, and the
following summer I got zero germination. Lesson learned.

So where should you store winter sown pawpaws? Easy – the garage or shed during the
coldest parts of the winter. This will generally prevent the seeds from freezing, but
still allow the cold treatment. And that is exactly what I do now when sowing pawpaw
seeds – I keep them in my garage.

Now, they don’t require much maintenance during the winter so to speak, but don’t let
the soil completely dry out. You should plan on giving each container a small amount
of water once per week. I do this on Sunday mornings and it just sort of becomes
routine.

The amount of water you need won’t be much, but will take some ‘testing’. Just pick
up the container each week and if it is feeling light, then you probably need to give
it more water than you have been.

When to take winter sown pawpaw containers outside

                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
[Nursery-e171482]
My ‘nursery’

As Spring approaches, I will take my containers outside to the North East side of my
home. This allows them to get morning sun, and afternoon shade. If you place them in
the sun all day long, they will just need more water. Pawpaws are very slow to
germinate and patience is required.

I will water the containers (along with all my other seedlings) as needed so they
don’t fully dry out. Again, just pick up a container periodically to see if it is
heavy or not. If it feels light, it needs water.

4 – Germination

Pawpaw seeds take a really long time to germinate. In my years of growing Pawpaw
seeds, I’ve never had them germinate prior to July. That’s right – July. For
reference, I’m in Southern Pennsylvania.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
Pawpaw seedling right after germination                                                                   

Pawpaw seeds are incredibly slow to germinate. I mean, really, really slow. And you
may have heard people say that Pawpaws are hard to grow from seed, and if you’ve made
this far, you can see that there is a bit of work involved. But, I believe that most
people who fail at germinating Pawpaw seeds do so due to a lack of patience, or just
not knowing that they will take so long to germinate.

Caring for seedlings

So, once Pawpaw seeds germinate, you can keep them in their location and just water
them daily or as needed. They will grow up to 6″ by the first year. I will keep them
in a container until Autumn, when I plant them out to their final location.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
Pawpaw seedlings                                                                                          

Pawpaw seedlings – about one month old. I took this picture in August 2023. By that
time 34 out of 36 seeds germinated, for a germination rate of 94%.

Transplanting seedlings

Look, I grow a lot of trees from seed, and I plant nearly all out to their final
location in the Fall. It is the absolute best time to plant trees (including pawpaw
trees). The cooler temperatures mean that there will not be much heat demand on the
tree. And there is still plenty of time before Winter sets in for the root to grow
further down.

Choosing the location

Location location location! For Pawpaws they are pretty adaptable in that they can
grow in full sun or full shade. But moisture and drainage is what you truly want to
consider. Pawpaw trees are not drought tolerant. They will require access to
moisture, either by where you plant it or by supplemental water you provide.

The area I plant my trees is considered part-sun or full sun, but it gets shaded in
the hottest parts of the afternoon. This is about the perfect place to grow Pawpaw
trees. In my experience foraging, the more sun a pawpaw tree gets, then the larger
pawpaws it will produce. While Pawpaws can grow in full shade, if they don’t get much
sun then the pawpaws they produce are small – almost like a golf ball. While Pawpaw
trees that grow along a road get southern exposure seem to produce 4-6″ long pawpaws
that are several inches in diameter.

Protecting young trees

Pawpaw leaves, twigs, and bark are all toxic. And thus they don’t seem to be eaten by
deer. However, young trees are at risk of being damaged by bucks rubbing their
antlers on the bark to mark their territory during the rut. Because of that, I place
tree shelters over all Pawpaw trees I plant. If you don’t have deer where you live,
then you probably don’t need to place a shelter around the tree.

                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
[transplant-pawpaw]                                                                                       

Me, placing a tree shelter on one of my pawpaw trees in October 2021.

Conclusion

Growing Pawpaw trees from seed is a fun and rewarding experience. It takes a bit of
work, but isn’t too complicated once you know what to do, which I hope I was able to
teach you in this article. I do document this in a video, which I will link to below.
I’ll timestamp it so that it will go straight to the part where I save the seed so
you can skip the intro.


This video brought to you by my very own YouTube channel

But I hope you found this helpful, and if so, please share it on your social media as
that greatly helps me out, and I truly appreciate it.

Find more native trees here

References:

[1] – Asimina triloba. USDA NRCS. Accessed 01DEC2019

[2] – Immel, Diana Ll, Anderson, M. Kat. PAWPAW Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal. USDA NRCS
Plant Guide. 21May2001.
Accessed 12DEC2019.

[3] – Desmond R. Layne. The Pawpaw [Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal]: A New Fruit Crop for
Kentucky and the United States. HORTSCIENCE, VOL. 31(5), SEPTEMBER 1996. https://
journals.ashs.org/downloadpdf/journals/hortsci/31/5/article-p777.pdf Retrieved
17JAN2021

[4] – Geneve, Robert L., et al. “Propagation of pawpaw—a review.” HortTechnology 13.3
(2003): 428-433.

[5] – U.S. Dept. of Agriculture. 1948. Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal, pawpaw, p. 92. In:
Woody plant seed manual. U.S. Dept. Agr., Washington, D.C., Misc. Publ. 654. Accessed
17JUL2023.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Save
Email
Print
 

Joe Foster

Hi - I grew up outdoors in nature - hiking, fishing, hunting. In high school I got my
first job at a garden center where I learned to garden and landscape. I've been
growing plants from seed and designing native plant gardens for over 10 years. I hope
to share some of my knowledge with you! You may have seen some of my videos I create
on our YouTube channel, GrowitBuildit (more than 10 million views!). You can find my
channel here: https://youtube.com/@growitbuildit Additionally I am a wood worker /
DIY enthusiast. I enjoy designing/building projects (with hand tools when I can!). I
hope to give you some tips and useful information!

Recent Posts

link to The Top 15 Fragrant Native Plants

The Top 15 Fragrant Native Plants

Ok - so one characteristic most of us can admire in a flower is a sweet smelling
flower. Well, I decided to compile this rather large list of fragrant natives that
you can add to your garden. It is...

Continue Reading
link to Japanese Stiltgrass - An Introduction To A Horrible Invasive Plant

Japanese Stiltgrass - An Introduction To A Horrible Invasive Plant

If you're reading this, then it is likely that you have just discovered Japanese
Stiltgrass. Perhaps you found it through a plant identification app, or discovered an
infestation in your...

Continue Reading

About Us

Welcome to Growit Buildit! We are a husband and wife duo. He with a love & extensive
self-taught knowledge of NATIVE PLANTS, GARDENING, and woodworking. Her with a love
of HOME DECOR DIY.  We hope to provide you with handy how-tos to start or enhance
your own home gardens, as well as provide you with plans on how to make some popular
home decor projects, both easily & inexpensively. No need for fancy tools or big
budgets! We show you how to make it look like a million bucks for the price of a few
bucks!

Read More

 

 

Search for: [                    ]
Copyright 2024| All Rights Reserved

Privacy, Terms of Use, Disclosure

About

