Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Rutabagas: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[rutabaga]                                                                                                                          
Caption

Though similar to turnips, rutabagas have a sweet flavor and will taste best if
harvested past the first few frosts.

Photo Credit
Peter Turner/Shutterstock
Botanical Name
Brassica napobrassica
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Rutabagas

Catherine Boeckmann
March 9, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Also known as “swedes,” rutabagas are essentially a cross between a turnip and a
cabbage. They’re grown for their softball-size, golden-color roots and their greens.
Here’s how to plant and grow rutabagas in your garden!

About Rutabagas

A biennial root vegetable, rutabagas are usually treated as annual crops generally
planted in midsummer and allowed to mature in the cool weather of fall (or as
a winter crop in warmer climates). They make a lovely autumn harvest vegetable after
being “kissed” by a fall frost, which brings out a richer flavor. 

Rutabagas are often confused with turnips; they’re called “swedes” in Europe and
“neeps” in Scotland. To add further confusion, they’re also called “Swedish turnips,”
or “winter turnips,” or “yellow turnips.” They are not turnips, though they are
cousins and essentially a cross between a turnip and cabbage.

Turnips are much smaller than rutabagas, which are the size of a grapefruit (thanks
to its cabbage relation). In addition, turnips have lighter skin and white flesh,
whereas the rutabaga has a warmer color and yellow fresh with smooth and waxy
blue-green foliage. Finally, there’s the difference in taste. Turnips generally have
spicy notes; rutabagas have a mild, sweet flavor with a faint peppery flavor.

Compared to turnips, rutabagas require a few weeks longer to mature. Otherwise, the
two vegetables require very similar care in the garden. This is an easy-to-grow root
vegetable as long as you follow some of the basic requirements outlined below, namely
planting dates and consistent watering.

Read Next

  • Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops
  • How to Grow Radishes: The Complete Guide
  • How to Grow Kohlrabi: The Complete Guide

Planting

Rutabagas prefer full sun (or light shade). Grow them in the ground or in raised beds
with deep, loose soil without any rocks or soil clumps. While rutabagas will tolerate
ordinary soil, the roots will grow bigger in fertile soil enriched with a layer of
compost or organic matter. Avoid planting rutabagas and other cold crops in the same
place more than once every 3 to 4 years.

When to Plant Rutabagas

The main challenge with rutabagas is getting the timing right. Rutabagas must mature
in cool weather (no warmer than 60°F at night). They need at least 3 months to
mature, so count back 90 days from your fall frosts to estimate a good sowing
time. Roots will become woody and fibrous if they get a warm spell when maturing. A
light fall frost improves the roots’ quality and flavor.

How to Plant Rutabagas

  • Maximize your harvest with a balanced (10-10-10) fertilizer, adding half of the
    recommended amount at planting and half about 4 weeks after planting. Avoid too
    much nitrogen at all once, which can impede bulb formation.
  • Sow seeds when the soil reaches 40ºF. Optimum soil temperatures are 40º to 60º F.
  • Plant seeds 1/2 of an inch deep, 2 inches apart, in rows 14 to 18 inches apart.
  • To sidestep a hot summer, start seedlings indoors and set them out when it’s
    cloudy. Or direct-seed into the ground and thin later to proper spacing.
  • Seeds will germinate in 4 to 7 days. After germination, thin to 6 inches
    apart. Do NOT crowd rutabagas or they will grow huge tops with skinny roots. 

Growing

  • Water with 1 to 1½ inches per week and more as roots mature. Never let the soil
    dry out. Keep moist but not soggy or waterlogged. An old rutabaga-growing adage
    says, “If in doubt, water.”
  • Water consistently. Spotty watering that teeters from dry to wet will cause split
    roots. This is where a soaker hose (or drip irrigation) would come in handy.
  • Mulch to retain moisture and keep soil cool.
  • Control weeds with frequent but shallow cultivation.
  • Sustained average temperatures of over 80ºF might cause bolting.

Types

  • ‘American Purple Top’ has a slightly deeper purple crown than other
    rutabaga varieties.
  • ‘Laurentian’ looks similar to ‘American Purple Top’, but the root can be a
    bit smaller.

Harvesting

  • Harvest the roots when they are 4 to 5 inches in diameter for best taste.
    (They’ll be the size of a softball.) Be gentle, using a garden fork to lift
    the roots.
  • However, you can also harvest early—when the roots are 2 to 3 inches in
    diameter—for a more tender, succulent texture.
  • The roots will push up out of the ground as they gain size; this is perfectly
    normal. Note that garden-grown rutabagas tend to be more top-shaped than round.
  • A few frosts will enhance the sweet flavor of rutabagas, but be sure to harvest
    before the ground freezes.
  • Cut off the leaves an inch above the fleshy root. Rutabaga foliage is edible when
    harvested young and tender. However, do not harvest more than a few leaves per
    root, as they need their foliage to grow big roots.
     

How to Store Rutabagas

  • To store, cut off the foliage to within 1 inch of the crown with a sharp knife.
    Wash off any soil and dry the root quickly for a day in a cool place.
  • Store the roots in plastic bags in the refrigerator.
  • Or, store a larger harvest in moist sand or sawdust in a cold garage, shed,
    basement, or root cellar. However, to last long (up to four months), rutabagas
    need high humidity (90 to 95%) and cold temperatures (just above freezing).

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Rutabagas were among the early jack-o-lanterns (they didn’t always use pumpkins
    !). Try spicing up your Halloween decorations next fall with a carved rutabaga.
  • Rutabagas are known as “Hanovers” in some mid-Atlantic states and as “table
    turnips” in parts of Canada.
  • Rutabagas were originally animal fodder, but humans soon recognized their
    nutritional and tasty potential. They are low in calories and high in
    fiber. Rutabagas are also high in anti-carcinogenic compounds.
  • When added to salt, powder from rutabaga seeds is a folk remedy for cancer.

Pests/Diseases

  • Using floating row covers for the first few weeks will eliminate most
    insect pests.

                             Rutabaga Pests and Diseases
  Pest/     Type             Symptoms                    Control/Prevention
 Disease
                                                Grow companion plants; knock off with
                                                water spray; apply insecticidal soap;
                   Misshapen/yellow             put banana or orange peels around
 Aphids   Insect   leaves: sticky “honeydew”    plants; wipe leaves with a 1 to 2
                   (excrement); sooty, black    percent solution of dish soap (no
                   mold                         additives) and water every 2 to 3
                                                days for 2 weeks; add native plants
                                                to invite beneficial insects
                   Yellow, V-shape areas on
                   leaf edges that brown and    Destroy infected plants; choose
Black rot Bacteria progress toward leaf center; resistant varieties; provide good
                   leaves eventually collapse;  drainage; remove plant debris; rotate
                   stem cross sections reveal   crops
                   blackened veins
                                                Use collars around seedling stems;
 Cabbage           Wilted/stunted plants;       monitor adults with yellow sticky
  root    Insect   off-color leaves; larvae     traps; use row covers; destroy crop
 maggots           feeding on roots             residue; till soil in fall; rotate
                                                crops
                   Wilted/stunted plants;       Destroy infected plants; solarize
Clubroot  Fungus   yellow leaves; roots appear  soil; maintain soil pH of around 7.2;
                   swollen/distorted            disinfect tools; rotate crops
  Flea             Numerous tiny holes in       Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
 beetles  Insect   leaves                       native plants to invite beneficial
                                                insects
                                                Destroy crop residue, including
Root-knot          Roots “knotty” or galled;    roots; choose resistant varieties;
nematodes Nematode plants stunted/yellow/       solarize soil; add aged manure/
                   wilted; roots forked/pimpled compost; disinfect tools; till in
                                                autumn; rotate crops
                   Chalk-white blisters mainly
                   on leaf undersides; small,
  White            yellow-green spots or        Destroy infected plants; choose
  rust    Fungus   blisters, sometimes in       resistant varieties; weed; destroy
                   circular arrangement, on     crop residue; rotate crops
                   upper leaf surfaces;
                   possible distortion or galls
                                                Trap by digging 2- to 4-inch-deep
                                                holes every 3 to 10 feet, fill with
                                                mix of germinating beans/corn/peas or
                   Seeds hollowed; seedlings    potato sections as bait, cover with
Wireworms Insect   severed; stunting/wilting;   soil or a board, in 1 week uncover
                   roots eaten/bored            and kill collected wireworms; sow
                                                seeds in warm soil for quick
                                                germination; provide good drainage;
                                                remove plant debris; rotate crops

Recipes

Rutabaga Soup
Rutabaga and Potato Purée

Cooking Notes

A good roast or soups are the most common ways to eat rutabagas or swedes. Many folks
also mash rutabaga, often with potatoes sweet potatoes or even carrots. Just cut one
peeled rutabaga into cubes and add two tablespoons of butter and milk, and season
with salt and pepper.

For a more exciting dish, try this casserole, standard in some Scandinavian
countries. Take the above-mashed rutabaga, mix in couple of tablespoons of molasses,
a half teaspoon of nutmeg, 1 beaten egg, and 2 tablespoons of bread crumbs. Bake in a
casserole dish at 350° for 30 minutes.

Rutabaga mixes well with fruits such as apple and pear and raisin. Try cooking the
rutabaga (cut into cubes) until fork-tender. Add grated or thinly sliced apples, some
sugar, cloves, salt, and cinnamon sticks. Throw in some raisins, too, remove the
cinnamon sticks, and serve.

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[harvest-shutterstock_1357987358]                                       

Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a bunch of red radishes with greens in a bunch                          

How to Grow Radishes: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[kohlrabi-close]                                                        

How to Grow Kohlrabi: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[shutterstock_719871823]                                                

5 Favorite Winter Squash Varieties for Cooking

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[arugula_vaivirga-ss-rsz]                                               

How to Grow Arugula: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[sweet-potatoes_ssbonnietaylorbarry]                                    

How to Grow Sweet Potatoes: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Betty Hewett (not verified)

2 years 11 months ago

When I ask the garden center for rutabaga seed, it seems I always get turnip seed. I
want the variety with the sweet yellow flesh. What variety should I ask for ?

  • Reply

Yvonne Carpenter (not verified)

3 years 3 months ago

Your article could use a spell checker :)
Thank you for the info!

  • Reply

Nancy (not verified)

1 year 3 months ago

In reply to Rutabaga article by Yvonne Carpenter (not verified)

Yes the spelling bugged me too

  • Reply

Wren (not verified)

3 years 6 months ago

I'm looking to grow rutabaga for the first time this year. I know the time for
planting it is soon, but I'm a bit concerned about the hot temperatures in my
area--we'll be over 90 for the next two months or so. If I mulch the rutabaga deeply,
will that protect it enough to keep it from bolting during our heat waves? Thanks so
much.

  • Reply

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
