Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Winter Squash Plants: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[squash-butternut-vines_dleonis-getty]                                                                                              
Photo Credit
DLeonis/Getty Images
Botanical Name
Cucurbita maxima, C. pepo, C. moschata, C. argyrosperma
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Bloom Time
Summer
Flower Color
Orange
Yellow
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Winter Squash

Catherine Boeckmann
March 11, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Growing winter squash requires some patience, but this garden vegetable is well worth
the wait—and most varieties have a long shelf life after harvest. From butternut
squash to acorn squash, learn how to plant, grow, harvest, and cure winter squash in
your home garden!

About Winter Squash

Because winter squash requires a long growing season (generally from 75 to 100
frost-free days), the seeds are generally planted by late May in northern locations
to early July in extremely southern states. See your local frost dates and length of
growing season.

Winter squash are harvested in late summer or autumn, just before or after their
fruits reach full maturity. Squash has a relatively long shelf life. Some varieties
will keep through winter, hence the name winter squash. Varieties include acorn,
butternut, delicata, Hubbard, pumpkin, and spaghetti.

Squashes and pumpkins are among the most thrilling vegetables you can grow. One
minute, the seedlings are tentatively pushing through, and then, just a few weeks
later, they’re great sprawling monsters with masses of leafy growth and plenty of
fruits. I love the fact they’re so easy to grow, too—as long as you can keep up with
their insatiable appetite, that is!

Despite the great diversity of squash, most commonly grown, cultivated varieties
belong to one of three species:

 1. Cucurbita pepo
 2. C. moschata
 3. C. maxima

Over several generations, these plants have been cultivated to produce fruit in all
kinds of shapes, colors, and flavors.

The Three Sisters

Squash is one of the three plants grown in the traditional Native American
style called the Three Sisters, along with beans and corn. When grown together, the
squash serves as a ground cover to prevent weeds from growing, beans provide natural
fertilizer for all three plants, and corn provides a support system for the beans.
Learn more about the Three Sisters.

Read Next

  • 5 Favorite Winter Squash Varieties for Cooking
  • Gourds: Types of Gourds, Growing Gourds, Curing Gourds
  • How to Grow Pumpkins: The Complete Guide

Planting

Squash love a warm, sunny, and sheltered spot—ideal conditions for good pollination
and proper fruit development. The plants are hungry feeders and need rich,
fertile soil.

Plant squash in a location with full sun and lots of space for sprawling vines. Most
full-size winter squash varieties need 50 to 100 square feet to spread. Soil must be
well-fed and moist (not soggy), and well-draining. Mix aged manure and/or compost
(about 50% native soil to organic matter) deep into the soil a couple of weeks
before planting. 

Methods of Planting Squash

  • Direct-sow (i.e., plant seeds directly in the ground) when all danger of frost
    has passed and the soil is at least 60°F, preferably 70°F.  Squash is very
    sensitive to the cold.
  • If you have a short growing season, start seeds in peat pots 2 to 4 weeks before
    your last spring frost date. Squash seedlings do not always transplant well, so
    handle the roots gently.

Most garden stores and nurseries also sell ready-to-plant seedlings—handy if you only
want to grow a few plants.

Set your plants out after all danger of frost has passed. Start to acclimatize them
to outside conditions two weeks beforehand. Leave them out during the day for
increasingly longer periods and then, from the second week, overnight in a sheltered
position. Plant trailing varieties up to five feet (1.5m) apart and bush types about
three feet (90cm) apart. Thoroughly water plants into position to settle the soil
around the rootball.

How to Plant Squash

  • If you plan to grow only a few plants, use 2 to 3 tablespoons of a balanced
    (10-10-10) fertilizer for each hill. Scatter the fertilizer evenly over a 2-foot
    by 2-foot area. Work it into the top 3 to 4 inches of soil. Or, for a larger
    garden area, add 2 to 3 pounds of balanced fertilizer for each 100 square feet.
  • Sow seeds in level ground 1 inch deep with seeds 2 to 3 feet apart. Or, sow 3 to
    4 seeds close together in small mounds (or hills; the soil is warmer off the
    ground) in rows 3 to 6 feet apart.
  • Consider planting a few squash seeds in midsummer to avoid problems from squash
    vine borers and other early-season pests and diseases.
  • The seeds should germinate in about a week with the right soil temperature (70ºF
    / 21°C or more). 
  • If necessary, use row covers or frame protection in cold climates for the first
    few weeks of spring. 
  • Use row covers to prevent insect problems early in the season. Remember to remove
    covers before flowering to allow pollination by insects.

See this helpful video on how to sow seeds.

Growing

  • Mulch to discourage weeds, retain moisture, and protect shallow roots. Mulch
    around plants with organic matter to help lock in valuable soil moisture and
    contribute additional nutrients.
  • Water thoroughly, frequently, and consistently, with at least 1 inch per week.
    Water at soil level and try to keep leaves and fruit dry. Dampness will make root
    rot and other diseases more likely. 
  • Keep plants well watered to encourage rapid growth. You can make watering easier
    by sinking six-inch (15cm) pots alongside plants. The pots will hold onto the
    water and deliver it through the drainage holes directly where it’s needed, at
    the roots.
  • When weeding around squash plants, do not over-cultivate, or the squash’s shallow
    roots may be damaged.

Thinning Seedlings

  • When seedlings in rows are 2 to 3 inches tall, thin to one plant every 18 to 36
    inches by snipping off unwanted plants without disturbing the roots of the
    remaining ones.
  • When seedlings in hills are 2 to 3 inches tall, thin to 2 to 3 plants per hill by
    snipping off unwanted plants without disturbing the roots of the remaining ones

Fertilizing

  • When the first blooms appear, scratch about 2 tablespoons of
    all-purpose fertilizer around each hill. Or, if growing squash in rows,
    side-dress. This give plants a boost as they try to produce fruit or blooms. Do
    not let the fertilizer touch the plants. Water the plants after fertilizing.
  • Once vegetables or flowers start growing and producing buds, you can scratch a
    small amount of all-purpose organic fertilizer into the soil around the base of
    the plant and water in.

Flowering and Fruiting

  • Poor pollination can result in squash flowers that do not bear fruit, or that
    bear small fruit. Pollinator activity is reduced by any chemicals, poor weather
    at bloom time, and lack of habitat. To attract more bees, try placing a bee house
    in your garden or plant pollinator flowers nearby.
  • If your first flowers aren’t forming fruits, that’s normal! Squash plants have
    separate male and female flowers. Males appear first on long thin stalks. Female
    flowers follow with an immature fruit at the bottom. To fruit, pollen from male
    flowers must be transferred to the female flower by bees. Or, the gardener can
    help manually with a cotton swab or paintbrush. See our article on how to hand
    pollinate your squash blossoms for better yields.

Pruning

Although in many cases winter squash vines do not need pruning, there are instances
where it might be necessary or desired. Pruning can reduce the number of squashes
that grow, but helps the vine to put its energy into healthy growth and larger fruit.

 1. At any time, prune out dead, damaged, or diseased leaves or shoots. This applies
    to bush types, too.
 2. Whether your squash has a bush or vining habit, check for overcrowding and thin
    out a few lateral (non-main) stems or some lower (especially those touching the
    ground) or overlapping leaves to allow for better air circulation, which can help
    to prevent disease such as powdery mildew, reduce hiding areas for insect pests,
    and help pollinators to find the flowers. (A baby squash that has not been
    successfully pollinated will grow just a few inches and then rot.) Overcrowding
    can also cause weakened growth. Be sure, though, to leave enough leaves for the
    plant to make food for itself; do not prune more than 1/3 of the plant.
 3. Some vining varieties may take over the garden, growing as long as 10 to 20 feet.
    If you are short on space, a little pruning can help keep these vines under
    control. Or, you might consider growing them vertically or selecting a bush type,
    which does not have a sprawling habit.

Various gardeners have favorite methods for pruning their plants, while others prefer
to essentially leave things alone, but here are some general guidelines: 

  • A vining winter squash plant has one or more main stems, each with secondary
    vines growing off it; in addition, tertiary vines may grow off the
    secondary vines. 
  • For vining squash types, many gardeners remove several nonfruiting secondary and
    all tertiary vines during the growing season. If you use this method, cut them
    back to their base, where they are attached to the main stem (leave about ½ to 1
    inch of lateral stem, being careful not to injure the main stem). Again, do not
    remove more than 1/3 of the growth of the plant at any one time.
  • For fruiting secondary vines, wait until they are at least 10 or so feet long
    (depending on variety) and have about 3 to 5 fruit developing on them, then you
    can cut them back to 1 to 3 leaf nodes beyond the last fruit (toward the tip
    end). This will help the plant to focus on developing the remaining fruit on that
    vine rather than on growing the vine longer. 
  • Do not prune the main vines until toward the end of the season, at which point
    you might clip the growing tips off (as you did earlier to the secondary vines)
    to promote the ripening of existing fruit instead of more flowering. (Any flowers
    that form late in the season would produce fruit that might not mature in time
    before the end of the growing season.)

In general, the best time to prune is in the morning, when it is cooler, which allows
the plant to recover before the end of the day. Alternatively, prune in the cool of
early evening. 

When pruning, be sure to disinfect your pruning tools before each cut, to help
prevent spreading disease. It helps to make sure that they are sharp, too. Learn how
to sharpen your gardening tools.

Discard the pruned plant debris away from the plants. If diseased stems or leaves are
removed, do not compost them, as some diseases may survive in the finished compost.

Types

  • ‘Waltham Butternut’: A large, tan fruit; this butternut squash is sweet and
    thin-skinned; harvest when it’s on the smaller side; flavor improves
    with storage 
  • ‘Honeybaby’ or ‘Honeynut’ butternut squash plants are compact and ideal for small
    spaces, raised beds, or containers. Expect about 8 small squash per plant.
    They’ll weigh a quarter to a half pound and perfect for steaming or baking.
  • ‘Butterscotch’ butternut squash produces 1 to 2-pound fruits on short vines. The
    sweet flesh is rich and smooth.  Each plant yields 3 to 4 fruits and the plant is
    resistant to powdery mildew.
  • Blue Hubbard squash is an heirloom known for its huge size, blue-gray color, and
    very hard skin. The flesh inside is orange, flavorful and smooth. It is great for
    pies and soups and stores well. Give this variety plenty of room to grow. 
  • ‘Buttercup’:  A round fruit with long vine, Buttercup has deep, bright orange
    flesh, a dark green inedible rind, and flat top. This heirloom has a sweet,
    nutty flavor.
  • ‘Delicata’: This bush type squash almost looks like a summer squash. It’s very
    moist and even good raw. Plus, its thin skin is edible, too. Delicata is also
    tolerant of powdery mildew.
  • ‘Tuffy’: An acorn type of squash, expect five or six fruit per plant. Acorn
    squash is bowl-shaped and has a nutty flavor and more fiborous texture than
    some squash.
  • ‘Sugaretti’ spaghetti squash has eye-catching striped fruits. Each medium-sized
    squash grows up to 10 inches long and has a sweet nutty flavor. The plants are
    compact and are resistant to powdery mildew. Bake the squash and use the flesh as
    a pasta substitute.
  • ‘Sunshine’: An award-winning kabocha squash with orange-red skin and bright
    orange flesh. The compact vine yields about 3 to 4-pound fruit that have a round,
    flattened shape. The flesh has a sweet nutty flavor and creamy texture. The
    fruits can be stored for months.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
butternut squash                                                                
Like most winter squash, the butternut squash is a vining plant that requires support
and space. 
Credit: By Ratda/Shutterstock.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
sunshine_full_width.jpg                                                         
The unusual kabocha squash; has space-saving 6 to 8-foot vines; early maturity makes
it adaptable to almost any growing location in North America. Credit: Johnny Seeds.

→ See more pictures of different types of squash.

Harvesting

Winter squash and pumpkins are generally ready to be harvested in early- to
mid-autumn, usually late September through October.

  • Unlike summer squash, which is harvested when tender and a bit immature, harvest
    winter squash when it is fully mature. The vine leaves die back and turn brown,
    the stems dry out and get tough, and the rind is deep in color and hard. If you
    can pierce the skin with your fingernail, it is not mature. 
  • Harvest on a dry day after the vines have died back.
  • Leave an inch or two of stem on winter squashes when harvesting them.
  • Cut the squash off the vine carefully with a sharp knife or pruners; do not tear,
    as you could break the fruit stem or the vines. 
  • Never carry the squash by their stem; if the stem breaks off, this exposes the
    skin to infection. 

Once you harvest, don’t forget to clean up the old squash vines to avoid disease!
Add vines to the compost pile if you have one. They’ll break down, and you can work
the compost into the soil before the next planting season.

How to Cure Winter Squash

Winter squash must be cured before storage. This process helps to dry off excess
moisture and to harden the skin, sealing out fungi and bacteria, which allows the
squash to be kept longer. 

Cut either side of the stem to leave a T-shaped stub. Avoid the temptation to use the
stem as a handle, as it could detach from the fruit and serve as an entry point to
rot. Move fruits to a warm, dry, and sunny spot to cure. 

If the weather is dry, just leave your squash on the vine and let them cure outside
in the sunshine. If it’s wet or turning colder, bring the squash inside and put them
somewhere warm and dry, such as a slatted greenhouse bench or a sunny window. 

Curing hardens the skin and is ready for storage. If it’s already turned cold and
damp outside, cure fruits in a greenhouse or on a sunny windowsill. Winter squash and
pumpkins will be stored for up to six months at room temperature.

How to Store Winter Squash

Before storing winter squash, dip it into or wash with a low-concentration bleach
rinse (1/2 cup bleach to 5 cups water) to sanitize the skin and eliminate bacteria.
Air-dry the fruit.

Store in a cool (40° to 50°F), dry, dark place with good circulation. Many varieties
of squash will last most of the winter. Note: Acorn will not keep for more than a few
weeks. Occasionally rotate and look for signs of rot. Remove any squash that shows
signs of decay.

Try to save some seeds if you grow heirloom varieties (not hybrids) to plant next
year. Wash and dry the seeds. Store in an airtight jar in a cool, dark place.

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • The word “squash” derives from askutasquash, the Narragansett Native American
    word meaning “eaten raw or uncooked.”
  • Winter squash have been grown in North America for more than 5,000 years.
  • Presidents Washington and Jefferson grew squash in their gardens. Give it a try!
  • So-called squash bees—Peponapis and Xenoglassa—are excellent Cucurbita
    pollinators and especially so for butternut squash (and summer squash). Look for
    them among the flowers in the first few hours after sunrise.

Pests/Diseases

Squash bugs are generally considered the most troublesome pest. They need to be
managed early. There are several organic approaches to control:

  • Handpick and scrape off those egg clusters early and as best you can
  • Spray neem on egg clusters and juvenile squash bugs
  • Grow young plants under row covers (uncover when flowering begins)
  • Delay squash planting until early summer as the natural predators of squash bugs
    become more numerous and active as summer progresses.

→ See our Squash Bug pest page for more information.

                              Squash Pests and Diseases
   Pest/      Type             Symptoms                    Control/Prevention
  Disease
                                                   Grow companion plants; knock off
                                                   with water spray; apply
                     Misshapen/yellow leaves;      insecticidal soap; put banana or
                     distorted flowers/fruit;      orange peels around plants; wipe
  Aphids    Insect   sticky “honeydew”             leaves with a 1 to 2 percent
                     (excrement); sooty, black     solution of dish soap (no
                     mold                          additives) and water every 2 to 3
                                                   days for 2 weeks; add native
                                                   plants to invite beneficial
                                                   insects
                                                   Remove affected fruit; plant at
                     Dark, water-soaked spots on   proper soil temperature; water
Blossom-end          blossom end of fruit          deeply and evenly; use mulch;
    rot     Disorder (opposite stem) may enlarge   maintain proper soil pH (around
                     and become sunken and         6.5) and nutrient levels; avoid
                     leathery                      excessive nitrogen; provide good
                                                   drainage; prevent root damage
                     Holes in leaves/flowers;
                     rasped fruit; plants stunted/
                     die; can spread bacterial
 Cucumber            wilt (Bacterial wilt signs:   Handpick; mulch heavily; use row
  beetles   Insect   wilting; plants die; ends of  covers; destroy plants infected
                     cut stems, when pressed       with bacterial wilt
                     together for 10 seconds and
                     pulled apart, release
                     stringy, white sap)
                     Varies with plant, but may    Destroy infected plants; choose
 Cucumber            include stunting, mottled     resistant varieties and certified
  mosaic    Virus    green/yellow/white pattern or virus-free seed; use row covers;
   virus             ringed spots on leaves/fruit; disinfect tools; weed; control
                     distorted leaf growth; warts  aphids; use mulch
                     on fruit
                     Yellow, angular spots on
                     upper leaf surfaces that turn Remove plant debris; choose
   Downy    Fungus   brown; white/purple/gray      resistant varieties; ensure good
  mildew             cottony growth on leaf        air circulation; avoid overhead
                     undersides only; distorted    watering
                     leaves; defoliation
                     Typically, white spots on     Destroy infected leaves or plants;
                     upper leaf surfaces expand to choose resistant varieties; plant
  Powdery            flour-like coating over       in full sun, if possible; ensure
  mildew    Fungus   entire leaves; foliage may    good air circulation; spray plants
                     yellow/die; distortion/       with 1 teaspoon baking soda
                     stunting of leaves/flowers    dissolved in 1 quart water;
                                                   destroy crop residue
                                                   Handpick; crush yellow/bronze egg
                     Many small, yellow/brown/     clusters on leaf undersides; lay
Squash bugs Insect   black spots on leaves; wilt;  boards on soil and check for pests
                     scarred fruit                 underneath each morning; remove
                                                   plant debris; use row covers;
                                                   rotate crops
                                                   If detected early, slit infested
                                                   stem lengthwise halfway to remove
                     Vines wilt suddenly; plants   borer(s), then bury the cut in
                     die; mushy area and/or green  moist soil to encourage rooting;
Squash vine Insect   to orange-yellow,             wrap seedling stems in aluminum
  borers             sawdust-like excrement on/    foil collar; catch moths with
                     near base of plant stem       yellow sticky traps; use row
                                                   covers if no pests previously, but
                                                   uncover before flowering; destroy
                                                   crop residue; rotate crops
                     Yellow/white blotches on      Destroy crop residue; handpick
                     leaves; scarred, dimpled, or  (bugs emit odor, wear gloves);
 Stinkbugs  Insect   distorted fruit; shriveled    destroy eggs; spray nymphs with
                     seeds; eggs, often keg-shape, insecticidal soap; use row covers;
                     in clusters on leaf           weed; till soil in fall
                     undersides

Recipes

Spaghetti Squash Vegetable Medley
Winter Squash Casserole
Baked Acorn Squash
Blue Ribbon Pumpkin Pie
Pumpkin Cheesecake Pie
Butternut Squash With Penne and Sausage

Cooking Notes

  • Winter squash is often baked in casseroles or on its own. Cook all types of
    squash only until tender to keep the nutritional content.
  • Mmmm, Pumpkin Pie! See our collection of Best Pumpkin Recipes!
  • Winter squash is a good source of vitamin A and has fair amounts of vitamin C.
    The darker the flesh, the more beta-carotene the squash has to offer. Learn more
    about winter squash’s health benefits! 
  • One cup of cubed winter squash contains about 80 calories, virtually no fat, and
    very little sodium.

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[shutterstock_719871823]                                                

5 Favorite Winter Squash Varieties for Cooking

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
gourds on table in the fall.                                            

Gourds: Types of Gourds, Growing Gourds, Curing Gourds

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
two orange pumpkins on a green vine growing in the garden               

How to Grow Pumpkins: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[corn-1605664_1920]                                                     

How to Grow Sweet Corn: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[three_sisters_garden-cdn-ecoliteracy-org_0]                            

The Three Sisters: Corn, Beans, and Squash

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Storing Potatoes                                                        

Preserving your Harvest for Weeks—and Months!

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Puzzled (not verified)

1 year 4 months ago

Why isn't information about how/what/when to prune included?
Your coverage of that is negligent at best

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 4 months ago

In reply to Why isn't information about… by Puzzled (not verified)

Thank you for the critique. Information about the best practices for pruning winter
squash has been added to the article.

  • Reply

David J.E. Candlish (not verified)

3 years 10 months ago

Hi - thanks for the informative but concise video - ideal! I just thought I'd tell
you about the squash plant I lost track of when it climbed up into a cherry tree.
Found it again later in the year when the cherry blossom had died off. It had grown
up and over the tree and down the other side. It had actually 'escaped' into my
neighbours garden, so I had to climb the fence to pick the ripe squashes hanging off
the far ends of the stem. Must have been over 10 metres long in total!

  • Reply

Ersilia De Marco (not verified)

4 years 2 months ago

My grandson brought us a small plant and said that it was a a fig gourd. Apparently
his Portuguese grandmother said that these grow in Portugal and he wanted to see if
he could grow one. We planted it and it had over ten small gourds; however, many fell
off and only 6 are left and they look like watermelons. They are hanging from a dead
tree where the plant climbed. I don't know if these can used for soups, my grandson
said his other grandma uses them for baking, i.e. turnovers, pies, etc. Any
information on these gourds? Thanks very much.

  • Reply

Keeley (not verified)

8 months 3 weeks ago

In reply to Fig Gourds by Ersilia De Marco (not verified)

Great web site you have here.. It's difficult to find good quality writing like
yours nowadays. I truly appreciate people like you! Take care!!

Here is my webpage - Login portogel

  • Reply

Cathie Leslie (not verified)

4 years 2 months ago

Actually I find winter squash ridiculously easy to grow. I didn't intentionally plant
any, they just grew in a mound where I had incorporated compost. One plant produced a
huge 20# banana squash and another several large (12#) spaghetti squashes. Just threw
the vines over old lawn chairs as they were sprawling everywhere.

  • Reply

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
