↑
Gardening Books Gardening Courses About
[                    ] [                    ] [Start search]
Generic selectors
[ ]
Exact matches only
[*]
Search in title
[*]
Search in content
[*]
Post Type Selectors
[*]
[*]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

Get Busy Gardening

DIY Gardening For The Beginner

  • Gardening Books
  • About

  • Home
  • Growing Food
      □ Growing Vegetables
      □ Growing Herbs
      □ Harvesting
      □ Recipes
      □ Food Preservation
  • Houseplants
      □ Houseplant Growing Guides
      □ Houseplant Care
      □ Houseplant Pests
  • Garden Care
      □ Garden Soil
      □ Watering & Irrigation
      □ Pruning Plants
      □ Pest Control
      □ Products & Gifts
  • Techniques
      □ Vertical Gardening
      □ Plant Propagation
      □ Container Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
  • Seeds
      □ Growing Seeds
      □ Seedlings Care
      □ Seed Saving
      □ Winter Sowing
  • Seasonal
      □ Overwintering Plants
      □ Fall & Spring Gardening
      □ Winter Gardening

Home / Food Gardening / Vegetable Gardening / How To Grow Summer Squash At Home

How To Grow Summer Squash At Home

Date: August 17, 2023 by Amy Andrychowicz | 6 Comments

As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. Read full disclosure here.
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
How To Grow Summer Squash Complete Care Guide                      
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
How To Grow Summer Squash Complete Care Guide                      
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
How To Grow Summer Squash Complete Care Guide                      

Growing summer squash is so simple, and it’s a staple in many home gardens. In this
post, I’ll show you everything you need to know in order to be successful, and have
your best crop ever.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
How To Grow Summer Squash At Home                                      

            
PinterPinter

The highly prolific and easy-to-grow summer squash makes it an ideal vegetable for
beginners to try out. But understanding how to take care of it is an important first
step.

This complete guide provides all the key information that a home gardener needs for
successfully growing summer squash.

It includes all you need to know, including when and where to plant, as well as
water, sun, water, soil and fertilizer requirements, and so much more.

Table of Contents

Toggle

  • Quick Summer Squash Care Overview
  • Information About Summer Squash
  • How To Grow Summer Squash
  • Summer Squash Care & Growing Instructions
  • Tips For Harvesting Summer Squash
  • Troubleshooting Common Problems
  • FAQs About Growing Summer Squash

Quick Summer Squash Care Overview

Scientific name: Cucurbit
Classification:  Vegetable
Common names:    Summer squash
Hardiness:       Annual
Temperature:     65-85°F
Flowers:         Yellow, blooms summer-frost
Light:           Full sun
Water:           Keep evenly moist
Humidity:        Average
Fertilizer:      High phosphorus fertilizer
Soil:            Rich, fertile, well-draining
Common pests:    Vine borers, squash bugs

Information About Summer Squash

Summer squash is a member of the Cucurbit family, and is known for its tender, edible
skin and flesh. It’s an annual plant that’s believed to have originated in Mexico and
Central America.

It also happen to be one of the easiest vegetables to grow. One or two plants are
often productive enough to provide you with an abundance of food to enjoy and share.

Summer squash is a general term that covers a wide range of tender fruits that grow
in different shapes and colors, and there are lots of options to choose from.

All of them feature large, arrowhead shaped foliage and green stems, and can mature
to be several feet wide and tall.

Related Post: How To Grow Winter Squash At Home

Different Types Of Summer Squash

Among the wide range of summer squash varieties out there these days, you can find
either vining and bush (non-climbing) types to grow.

Even within each of these types, there are many varieties you can try out in your
garden. Thankfully, all of them can be cared for in the same way.

  • Zucchini – The most popular and well known of all, the fruits are often dark
    green, but can also be yellow or cream colored. Try Dark Star, Black Beauty,
    Green Machine, or Max’s Gold.

  • Crookneck – Bulbous ends taper into thin, curved necks on this one. Look for
    varieties like Yellow Crookneck, Delta, or Tempest.

  • Straightneck – These also feature a bulbous end, but the narrow end is straight.
    Try the Saffron, Super Pick, Yellow Straightneck, or Zephyr varieties.

  • Patty Pan – The scalloped-edged round fruits on this one are much smaller than
    the other types. Check out Sunburst, Yellow Scallop, or Lemon Sun for two popular
    varieties.

  • Ball Types – Instead of being elongated, the fruits look like a round ball. Look
    for Eight Ball, One Ball, or Lucky 8 varieties to give them a try.

Related Post: How To Grow Zucchini

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Yellow summer squash growing in my garden                              
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Yellow summer squash growing in my garden                              
Yellow summer squash growing in my garden

Hardiness

All types of summer squash are annual plants that prefer moderate temperatures, and
can suffer if it gets too hot or cold.

Extreme temps can stop flowering and fruiting, while frost and cold weather will
eventually kill the plant.

How Does Summer Squash Grow?

It takes both male and female flowers for your summer squash to grow. Male flowers
appear first and produce the pollen needed to fertilize the fruit-bearing female
blooms.

Once pollinated, the baby fruit at the base of the female flower will begin to get
larger as it matures.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Baby summer squash on immature female flower                           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Baby summer squash on immature female flower                           
Baby summer squash on immature female flower

How To Grow Summer Squash

Timing and location are both a key factors in how successful you can be with growing
summer squash. Let’s talk about both so you can get it perfect right from the start.

Where To Grow Summer Squash

The ideal spot for growing summer squash is an area that gets full sun, has plenty of
space, and well-drained soil.

The plants can get very large, and do great in raised beds or garden plots.
Containers may work, especially for bush varieties, but only if they are very large –
24” or more.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Healthy summer squash plant growing in the garden                      
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Healthy summer squash plant growing in the garden                      
Healthy summer squash plant growing in the garden

When To Plant Summer Squash

Wait until all risk of frost has passed to plant your summer squash in the spring or
early summer.

It’s best to wait until the air temperature stays consistently above 60°F, and the
ground is a warm 70°F. You can use a soil thermometer to check.

It is not beneficial to plant them earlier, as the cold will stunt their growth, and
a late frost could kill them.

Summer Squash Care & Growing Instructions

Now that you know when and where to grow summer squash, we can chat about how to give
them the proper care. Creating an ideal environment is the best way to have
productive plants.

Sunlight

Summer squash plants grow best in full sun. They’ll produce the most when given 6-8
hours of direct exposure every day.

In extreme heat, the sun can be damaging to the plant, but a few scorched leaves are
usually nothing that they can’t recover from.

Protect them with a shade cloth in the hottest part of afternoon, and water more
frequently if you’re expecting an extended heat wave.

Water

The larger they grow, the more thirsty summer squash plants become. They need
consistent, even, deep watering to keep the soil moist, but not soggy.

You’ll want to water until the ground feels damp 4” down, and repeat when it begins
to dry out. Use a moisture gauge to help you get it right.

Mulching can also be very helpful in preventing evaporation, especially in hot
weather.

Temperature

The ideal range for growing summer squash is between 65-85°F, though they can
tolerate higher temperatures fairly well.

In extreme heat, they may slow or halt fruit production, or experience wilting and
blossom drop.

In dry arid climates, provide them with afternoon shade, use a shade cloth to keep
them cool during the hottest part of the day.

Cold weather, especially when it drops down into the 40’s, will stop growth and
flower formation, and a hard frost will kill the plant.

Fertilizer

Since summer squash plants are heavy producers, it also means they are heavy feeders.
So regularly fertilizing them is important in order to maximum yield.

Choose an organic fertilizer with a higher phosphorus content to encourage more
flowering and fruit production.

Work slow-release granules, manure, compost, or worm castings into the soil at
planting time, then side-dress them monthly.

Liquid options like fish emulsion or compost tea are also great, and can be applied
up to once a week. I always recommend avoiding any chemical options, especially on
food crops.

Related Post: How To Can Squash

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Different summer squash growing stages                                 
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Different summer squash growing stages                                 
Different summer squash growing stages

Soil

Starting your summer squash in a well-drained, fertile soil is essential for the
health and vigor of the plant. Amend poor quality soil with compost, manure, or worm
castings.

They also prefer it to be neutral to slightly acidic. So aim for a pH between 6-6.5
on your probe tool. You can neutralize higher acidity with garden lime.

Trellising

Some types of summer squash are climbing plants with long vines that will require
extra support as they grow.

Check your seed packet or plant tag to find out if yours are vining and need support
(bush types do not). It’s easy to learn how to trellis them in order to keep them
tidy and healthy throughout the season.

Related Post: How To Build A Squash Arch For Your Garden

Pruning

It may be tempting to remove some of the leaves and stems as your summer squash
plants get large, especially if they seem to be taking over your garden.

While it’s okay to occasionally remove a damaged or diseased leaf, trim them with
caution.

Not only will over-pruning reduce production, but it can expose developing fruits to
the elements and cause damage, such as sun scorch.

Pest Control Tips

There are unfortunately many bugs that love summer squash plants. Pests like spider
mites, beetles, and aphids sometimes attack them.

Most insects are easily controlled with hand picking, diatomaceous earth, neem oil,
or insecticidal soap (combine 1 teaspoon of mild liquid soap with 1 liter of water to
make your own).

But there are two more concerning bugs that can do a lot of damage to your vines and
fruits, and even kill the plants: squash bugs and vine borers.

I recommend you read my articles on getting rid of squash bugs and eliminating vine
borers so you’re prepared for the signs of their presence, and know how to stop them
from ruing your crops.

Disease Control Tips

Summer squash are susceptible to a range of typical soil borne diseases, like mosaic
virus and blight, and can also get downy or powdery mildew in damp conditions.

The best way to manage disease is to water from the base, instead of overhead.
Keeping splashing water and soil off of the leaves can prevent infection.

If you see damaged leaves, trim them away to try and control it, and use an organic
fungicide to slow it down. If that doesn’t work, pull and destroy the plant to keep
it from spreading through your garden.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Zucchini summer squash ready to harvest                                
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Zucchini summer squash ready to harvest                                
Zucchini summer squash ready to harvest

Tips For Harvesting Summer Squash

Summer squash fruits grow and mature very quickly, in as little as a week after
pollination. Once you begin to see fruit, check back every day.

While the ideal size may depend on your variety, in general they’re better when
picked small and tender. Large ones, while edible, tend to get seedy, watery, and
less flavorful with time.

You can check out all the details about how to properly remove them from the vine and
more in my detailed harvesting guide.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Freshly picked summer squash                                           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Freshly picked summer squash                                           
Freshly picked summer squash

Troubleshooting Common Problems

Growing summer squash is great for beginners, but that doesn’t mean they’re always
problem free. If you run into one of these common issues, my tips can help get you
back on track.

White Spots On Leaves

There are two reasons why white spots can appear on the leaves. One, is that you have
a variety with natural variegation. If the leaves appear in good health, don’t worry!

However it could also be powdery mildew. In that case, it can often be wiped away
with a rub of your finger, which will give you a positive ID.

Water in the mornings so moisture doesn’t sit on the leaves overnight, avoid crowding
the plant, and apply a natural fungicide to get it under control.

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
White powdery mildew spots on summer squash leaves                     
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
White powdery mildew spots on summer squash leaves                     
White powdery mildew spots on summer squash leaves

Leaves Turning Yellow

Yellowing leaves is a sign of stress. It can happen when temperatures are either
extremely high or low, the plant is under or over watered, or experiencing an issue
like pests or disease.

Keep the soil evenly moist, but avoid making it a muddy puddle to prevent things like
rot. You may need to water more frequently during a heat wave.

Check for any brown, soft, or squishy stems as a sign of rot or vine borers, and look
under the leaves for bugs.

Flowers But No Fruit

The most common cause of plentiful flowers without fruit on summer squash plants is
simply a lack of pollination.

You can take steps to attract more pollinators to your yard to help out. But in the
meantime, learn how to pollinate the flowers by hand to quickly get your plant
producing more.

FAQs About Growing Summer Squash

Here I’ve answered some of the most commonly asked questions about growing summer
squash. If yours isn’t on the list, please ask it in the comments section below.

Is summer squash easy to grow?

Yes, summer squash is easy to grow. It is low maintenance and productive once you
know how to create the ideal environment. Provide consistent water, fertilizer,
plenty of sun, and watch out for destructive pests.

How long does summer squash take to grow?

How long a summer squash plant takes to grow will depend on the variety, but they
average around 60 days from seed to harvest.

Does summer squash need full sun?

Yes, summer squash needs full sun for maximum flower and fruit production, ideally it
should get 6-8 hours of full exposure a day.

How long will summer squash keep producing?

Summer squash will keep producing as long as the weather allows them too. Often they
die off after the first frost of fall.

Does summer squash need a trellis?

Some, but not all, summer squash plants need a trellis. Check the seed packet or
plant tag to learn if yours is a vining climber, which is the type that will need
one, or a bush variety, which won’t need one. However, even vining ones don’t require
a trellis, they can grow just fine along the ground.

Does summer squash need a lot of water?

Yes, summer squash needs a lot of water in order to set and produce fruit. Exactly
how much depends on its size. In general, they require several inches of water a
week, whether by rain or irrigation, and that can increase when it’s warmer than
85°F.

The tips shared in this guide are everything a beginner needs to feel confident
growing summer squash in their garden. Once you give it a try, you’ll quickly see how
plentiful and easy they are to care for.

                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
[svg]                                                              
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
[vertical-vegetables-book-banner-ad]                               

If you want to learn all about how to grow your crops up rather than out, then you
need my Vertical Vegetables book. It will show you all you need to know in order to
have both a beautiful and highly productive veggie patch. Order your copy today!

Learn more about my Vertical Vegetables book here.

More About Vegetable Gardening

  • How To Grow Green Beans At Home
  • How To Grow Cucamelons (Mouse Melon) At Home
  • How To Grow Eggplant At Home

Share your tips for how to grow summer squash in the comments section below.

            
PinterPinter

                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
How To Grow Summer Squash Complete Care Guide                      
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
How To Grow Summer Squash Complete Care Guide                      

140 shares

  • Pinterest140
  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email

About Amy Andrychowicz

I'm the founder and owner of Get Busy Gardening, a book author, and an expert
gardener. I love growing ALL of the plants. From vegetables, herbs, fruits, and
flowers, to cacti, succulents, tropicals, and houseplants - you name it, I've grown
it! When I'm not in the garden, you'll find me canning, pickling, cooking, and
preserving all of my homegrown food. My green thumb comes from my parents, and I've
been gardening for most of my life. Read More...

Comments

 1. Suzanne says

    July 20, 2023 at 10:13 am

    My summer squash is forming like large bowling balls! The first time I’ve ever
    had it. Is this normal?!?!?! I usually get the elongated.

    Reply
      □ Amy Andrychowicz says

        July 26, 2023 at 10:42 am

        Your summer squash has probably been cross-pollinated with another nearby
        variety, this is very common. Otherwise you might have gotten some crossed
        seeds that didn’t grow true.

        Reply
 2. Anzaldua says

    July 7, 2023 at 2:48 pm

    For the second summer running, my summer squashes are producing large numbers
    (currently about 7 per plant) of small (less than 2” long, 1/4” wide) fruit, all
    near the base. My garden gets barely 6 hours of summer sun. Could that be the
    cause, or part of it? What can I do besides fertilizing to get the fruits to grow
    larger?

    Reply
      □ Amy Andrychowicz says

        July 13, 2023 at 9:58 am

        If the tiny squashes on your plant never grow larger, and just turn yellow/
        brown, shrivel and fall off, that’s caused by a lack of pollination. You
        either need to work to attract more bees to your veggie garden or try
        pollinating the flowers yourself with these instructions.

        Reply
 3. Alan Wynn says

    June 19, 2023 at 9:56 am

    Should I thin the fruit? My vines are loaded with small fruit and I was wondering
    if it would help to thin them out a little? I am fine with having a lot of fruit
    but I wanted to be sure.

    Reply
      □ Amy Andrychowicz says

        June 21, 2023 at 2:26 pm

        There’s no need to thin the developing fruits from your summer squash plant.
        But it’s best to harvest them when they’re small for the best flavor and
        texture.

        Reply

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
          [                                             ]
Comment * [                                             ]

Name * [                              ]

Email * [                              ]

[ ] Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

[ ] Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without
commenting.

[Post Comment] 

 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
Δ[                                             ] 

                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
Amy Andrychowicz standing in her garden holding a container of herbs        

Hi, I'm Amy, gardening expert, book author, and lover of ALL of the plants. I want to
help you learn how to garden, indoors or out, and grow, cook, and preserve your own
food with tons of tips and advice to help you along the way.

More about me

More about Get Busy Gardening

                                                                
                                                                
                                                                
Free Guide!                     Free Guide!                     

Fix Your Garden Problems!

How to Fix the Top 7 Most Common Gardening Problems

[                    ]
[                    ]
GET MY FREE GUIDE
By clicking the button you are agreeing to receive our email newsletter. You can
unsubscribe at any time. Read our privacy policy for the full story on how we protect
and manage your submitted data.

[                    ][Search]
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Sage growing in my garden         Sage growing in my garden         

How to Grow Sage at Home

                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Zucchini growing in my garden     Zucchini growing in my garden     

How To Grow Zucchini At Home

                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Broccoli growing in my garden     Broccoli growing in my garden     

How To Grow Broccoli At Home

                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Peas growing on a plant in my gardPeas growing on a plant in my gard

How To Grow Peas At Home

                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Strawberries growing on a plant inStrawberries growing on a plant in

How To Grow Strawberries At Home

                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Large rhubarb plants growing in a Large rhubarb plants growing in a 

How To Grow Rhubarb At Home

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
Amy Andrychowicz'Amy Andrychowicz'
Meet Amy!
Amy Andrychowicz is a gardening expert, book author, and the creator of Get Busy
Gardening®. She is devoted to helping new gardeners learn through her life-long
experience with encouragement, guidance, and advice that's easy to understand.
Read More...

  • Gardening Books
  • Gardening Courses
  • Terms Of Use, Disclaimer & Privacy Policy
  • Contact Me

Get Busy Gardening
COPYRIGHT ©2009-2024
GET BUSY GARDENING ® LLC
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

All content found on this website is copyrighted materials and any form of
reproduction is strictly prohibited.

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

ALL CONTENT FOUND ON THIS WEBSITE IS COPYRIGHTED MATERIALS AND ANY FORM OF
REPRODUCTION IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED.

140 shares

  • 140
  •  
  •  
  •  

MENU

  • [                    ]
  • Growing Food
      □ Growing Vegetables
      □ Growing Herbs
      □ Harvesting
      □ Recipes
      □ Food Preservation
  • Houseplants
      □ Houseplant Growing Guides
      □ Houseplant Care
      □ Houseplant Pests
  • Garden Care
      □ Garden Soil
      □ Watering & Irrigation
      □ Pruning Plants
      □ Pest Control
      □ Products & Gifts
  • Techniques
      □ Vertical Gardening
      □ Plant Propagation
      □ Container Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
  • Seeds
      □ Growing Seeds
      □ Seedlings Care
      □ Seed Saving
      □ Winter Sowing
  • Seasonal Gardening
      □ Overwintering Plants
      □ Fall & Spring Gardening
      □ Winter Gardening
  • Gardening Books
  • Gardening Courses
  • About Get Busy Gardening®

