[]       
 Homes &  Homes & Gardens
YOUR GUIDE TO GOOD DESIGN
US Edition

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of US                                                             

Select your region
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of UK                                                             
UK
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of US                                                             
US
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of Australia                                                      
Australia
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of Canada                                                         
Canada
Subscribe
×
[                    ] Search
  •  
  • Interior design advice
  • Kitchens
  • Bathrooms
  • Celebrity style
  • Gardens
  • Home Tours
  • What to buy
  • Solved
  • More
      □ LATEST
      □ Promo Codes
      □ Digital Editions
      □ Subscribe to Homes & Gardens magazine
      □ About Us
  • 

Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter        
Homes and Gardens Magazine
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
Homes and Gardens Magazine  
Why subscribe?

  • The best in design, decoration & style in every issue
  • Inspiring real homes, expert project advice and on-trend shopping tips
  • Issues delivered straight to your door or device

From$25.99
View Deal
Trending

  • WINTER GARDENING CHECKLIST
  • BEST NON-TOXIC AIR FRYERS
  • VEGETABLES TO PLANT IN DECEMBER
  • CHRISTMAS DECOR IDEAS
  • INTERIOR DESIGN TRENDS

Gardens

 1. Gardens

How to grow strawberries – from seed or runners

Learn how to grow strawberries with our helpful guide – you'll be enjoying delicious
home-grown fruit fresh from your plot in no time

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter
  • 

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
Here’s how it works.

                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
how to grow strawberries fresh strawberries in
(Image credit: Getty images)

                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
Holly Reaney      

By Holly Reaney
published 6 August 2021
in Advice

It's easy to learn how to grow strawberries – and it's no surprise that they're
amongst the most popular crops to grow at home, as there is nothing quite as a
delicious as a freshly picked strawberry on a summer morning. 

'Strawberries have to be everyone’s favorite fruit to grow and they work well in
towers, hanging bags and vertical gardens,' says PL gardening expert Leigh Clapp, and
thankfully they're very easy to grow. Below we tell you how to grow strawberries in
your own garden with our beginner's guide so that you can add this luscious crop to
your kitchen garden ideas. Also, as an easy and popular fruit to grow, knowing when
to plant strawberries is important for a bumper harvest.

How to grow strawberries – the different methods, explained

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
strawberry plant                    

(Image credit: Getty images)

There are three different methods to pick from when deciding how to grow
strawberries. You can grow them from seed, from bare root or from runners. The method
you choose for how to grow strawberries depends on where you wish to plant them and
the time of the year.

Seeds are best grown in spring, bare root plants are best planted in late winter
(about a month before your expected last frost) and runners (which are created from
an existing plant) are best planted in summer once the parent plants have
established.

No matter which method you settle on for how to grow strawberries they all need 'rich
fertile soil and a sunny spot,' advises Leigh Clapp.

How to grow strawberries from seed

Learning how to grow strawberries from seed is the cheapest method to have lots of
strawberry plants, however it is also the method that requires the most patience as
strawberry seeds can take up to a month to germinate. Strawberry seeds can be sowed
anytime from January through to April. 

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
raised bed filled with strawberry pl

(Image credit: Getty Images)

There are several tricks to help increase the speed and likelihood of germination. 

Try placing the strawberry seeds – in their packet – in a sealed plastic bag and
place in the refrigerator for a month.  This will trick the seeds into thinking that
winter has come and gone. After this time remove and keep the bag sealed until it has
reached room temperature. Prepare seed compost in a tray and sow the seeds on the top
of the soil. Do not cover the seed. Cover the tray with a propagator and keep warm,
moist and light until the seeds germinate – sometime within two to three weeks. They
will be ready to pot on to their permanent positions within two months.

'Grow strawberries in full sun in fertile, moist, well drained soil at a distance of
30cm (12") apart,' advises Sue Sanderson from Thompson & Morgan. 

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
strawberry plant                    

(Image credit: Getty images)

If you're looking for instant vegetable garden ideas, bear in mind that strawberries
grown from seed will fruit in their second year. Strawberries are cold hardy plants
and go dormant throughout the winter months. They will survive milder winters with
small amounts of frost.However, if you live in an area that has harsher winters,
consider covering your strawberry plants with frost-fleece in order to protect them.

How to grow strawberries from runners

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
strawberry plant                    

(Image credit: Getty images)

Established strawberry plants produce lots of runners during their growing period. If
left to their own devices these can either grow into strawberry plants or can shrivel
and die. It all depends on whether they have good and consistent contact with soil.
This makes it very easy to propagate new strawberry plants from your established
plants.

Learning how to grow strawberries from runners is very simple. First pick a
strawberry plant with a healthy runner – it will look like a long horizontally
growing stem with the starts of leaves at the end.

Then, all you have to do is fill a small plant pot to the brim with compost and water
well. Having done this lay the end of the runner in the centre of the plant pot and
pin in place with a U-shaped staple or bent piece of wire. 

It is vital that you keep the runner stem linked to the parent plant until the new
plant has developed its own strong root system as these will enable it to fend for
itself once severed from the parent. 

Once separated, place in a sunny spot and keep well watered, repotting as necessary.

How to grow strawberries from bare root 

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
basket of strawberries next to plant

(Image credit: Getty images)

Learning how to grow strawberries from bare root is one of the most versatile ways to
grow strawberries. Bare root strawberries can be mail ordered throughout the dormant
period – between February and April.

'Bare root means they come not in a pot, and not with soil or compost around them.
This means you can get lots delivered in a very small parcel,' explains Matthew
Oliver, horticulturist at RHS Hyde Hall, in this video. These plants must be planted
immediately after receipt or else 'the roots will desiccate out and the plants will
die,' continues Matthew.

To plant your bare root plants, simply fill a medium sized plant pot – that is at
least the depth of the bare root plant – with peat-free potting compost and fully
cover the roots in soil. Be sure to keep the crown of the plant – the point where
both the roots and the leaves start above the surface of the soil.

Once potted up, 'they will live in the cold frame throughout winter,' advises
Matthew, before being brought into the glasshouse towards the end of winter. 'The
extra heat in the greenhouse will help to spur the plants into life and you should
get a crop for around easter time'. 

Alternatively, if you do not have a greenhouse, treat the bare root plants the same
way on receipt, and then plant directly into the garden come March. These will fruit
a little later at around June or July.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
Kitchen garden ideas - strawberries 

(Image credit: Future)

It is also worth noting that there is another type of bare root strawberry - the cold
stored strawberry. These can be planted from late spring to early summer and will
likely already have flowers in tact. Within 60 days of planting, these cold-stored
bare root strawberries will fruit. While cold-stored bare root strawberries fruit
early in their first year, they will then revert to a traditional growing and
fruiting pattern in subsequent years.

How long does it take for a strawberry plant to bear fruit?

It takes around 3 months for a bareroot strawberry plant to bear fruit. Strawberry
plants raised from seed will produce fruit in their second summer as the plant
requires its first year to establish and grow. The same applies to summer propagated
runners which will be establishing their fruit.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
pots of strawberry plants with fruit

(Image credit: Getty Images)

Do strawberries come back every year?

Yes, strawberry plants are perennial so will come back every year. The average
strawberry plant has a lifespan of about six years, though after the first two their
will be a notable drop in the amount of fruit produced. Some gardeners therefore
prefer to treat their strawberry plants as annuals, growing a new stock each year.
Taking runners from your established plant will ensure that you always have a young
crop producing its best fruit. 

Sign up to the Homes & Gardens newsletter

Design expertise in your inbox – from inspiring decorating ideas and beautiful
celebrity homes to practical gardening advice and shopping round-ups.

[                    ][ ]Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands[ ]
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors[Sign me up]
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy
and are aged 16 or over.

                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
Holly Reaney      

Holly Reaney
Social Links Navigation
Content Editor and Sub-editor

Having graduated with a first class degree in English Literature, Holly started her
career as a features writer and sub-editor at Period Living magazine, Homes &
Gardens' sister title. Working on Period Living brought with it insight into the
complexities of owning and caring for period homes, from interior decorating through
to choosing the right windows and the challenges of extending. This has led to a
passion for traditional interiors, particularly the country-look. Writing for the
Homes & Gardens website as a content editor, alongside regular features for Period
Living and Country Homes & Interiors magazines, has enabled her to broaden her
writing to incorporate her interests in gardening, wildlife and nature. 

Latest

  • 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
  • Charcuterie board         
    How to use an air fryer to elevate your charcuterie board – tried and tested tips
    from a trained chef

    Here are my low-effort air fryer hacks for maximum, festive effect

    By Lydia Hayman Published 24 December 24

                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
  • Log cabin kitchens hero   
    Log cabin kitchens are the coziest style to introduce to your home in 2025 – and
    these 3 spaces offer plenty of inspiration

    Charming, rustic, and endlessly stylish, these cozy cabin schemes will change the
    way you design your kitchen

    By Molly Malsom Published 24 December 24

Useful links

Advice

  • How to design a kitchen
  • How to design a bathroom
  • How to design a patio
  • Interior design: advice and tips
  • How to clean a washing machine

Pictures

  • Living room ideas
  • Bedroom ideas
  • Kitchen ideas
  • Bathroom ideas
  • Backyard ideas

Buying Guides

  • Best mattress
  • Best cordless vacuum cleaners
  • Best pillows
  • Best coffee makers
  • Best blenders

 

  • about us
  • Contact Future's experts
  • Advertise with us
  • Contact us
  • Terms and conditions
  • Privacy policy
  • Cookies policy
  • Careers

Homes & Gardens is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading
digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
© Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights
reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.

