[]       
 Homes &  Homes & Gardens
YOUR GUIDE TO GOOD DESIGN
US Edition

                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of US                                                             

Select your region
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of UK                                                             
UK
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of US                                                             
US
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of Australia                                                      
Australia
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
flag of Canada                                                         
Canada
Subscribe
×
[                    ] Search
  •  
  • Interior design advice
  • Kitchens
  • Bathrooms
  • Celebrity style
  • Gardens
  • Home Tours
  • What to buy
  • Solved
  • More
      □ LATEST
      □ Promo Codes
      □ Digital Editions
      □ Subscribe to Homes & Gardens magazine
      □ About Us
  • 

Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter        
Homes and Gardens Magazine
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
Homes and Gardens Magazine  
Why subscribe?

  • The best in design, decoration & style in every issue
  • Inspiring real homes, expert project advice and on-trend shopping tips
  • Issues delivered straight to your door or device

From$25.99
View Deal
Trending

  • WINTER GARDENING CHECKLIST
  • BEST NON-TOXIC AIR FRYERS
  • VEGETABLES TO PLANT IN DECEMBER
  • CHRISTMAS DECOR IDEAS
  • INTERIOR DESIGN TRENDS

 1. Gardens

How to grow strawberries from a strawberry – experts tips on how to get more crops
for free

Learn how to harvest and sow seeds from your own homegrown strawberries to grow into
new productive plants

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter
  • 

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
Here’s how it works.

                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
Strawberries hanging on a strawberry plant    
(Image credit: Getty/David Jeffery / EyeEm)
Jump to category:

  • Can you grow strawberries from a strawberry?
  • How to grow strawberries from a strawberry
  • Can you grow strawberries from a strawberry top?
  • Can you grow strawberries from store-bought strawberries?

                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
Drew Swainston    

By Drew Swainston
published 29 March 2023
in Advice

Strawberries are a hugely popular crop, commonly propagated from an existing plant by
splitting the crown or via runners. A slightly more uncommon method sees growers use
their own strawberries to grow more strawberries by harvesting and utilizing the
seeds contained around the sides of the berry.

If you want to know how to grow strawberries from a strawberry, it is a process that
involves harvesting, drying, and cold-storing the seeds before sowing them to grow
into new strawberry plants.

Learning how to grow strawberries gives you all the tools to maintain these perennial
plants that can supply you with fruit for many years. Once you have varieties of
plants you like, then it is simple to grow more of the plants using your homegrown
strawberries.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
A harvest of ripe strawberries      


Homegrown strawberries can give you seed to produce lots of new plants


(Image credit: Getty/GCapture)

Can you grow strawberries from a strawberry?

There are four main ways to propagate, grow, and plant strawberries. Along with
buying plants, existing crowns can be split, new plants can be grown from runners, or
plants can be grown from seed. It is via that last method that makes strawberries
suitable to be grown from another strawberry. 

Strawberries are a simple crop to grow from seed and, while strawberry seeds are
commonly available, if you have a plant that produces berries that you adore – then
why not consider growing more of that exact type by harvesting and using the seeds
from it. It can be a simple method of getting more plants for your kitchen garden or
backyard for free.

Dick Zondag, garden doctor for Jung Seed, advises on how you identify and can
potentially get the seeds off a strawberry. He says: ‘The fruit is named an achene or
“False Fruit”. There are many seeds embedded in a fleshy receptacle. There are lots
of seeds contained on one fruit. You can get the seeds by drying the fruits. Let the
fruits ripen completely so the seeds are viable.’

The berry itself is the part that swells up and turns juicy and red, the tiny white
dots all around the outside are called achenes. Each achene is its own fruit that
contains a single strawberry seed that can be harvested and planted to grow into new
plants to provide a harvest of strawberries.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
A close up of a strawberry          


The achenes around the strawberry each contain a seed


(Image credit: Getty/Jonathan Knowles)

How to grow strawberries from a strawberry

Mary Jane Duford is a gardening expert and founder of the gardening blog Home for the
Harvest. She advises that you pick the ‘healthiest-looking ripe strawberries’ to get
seeds from and has an 8-point method to go from picking a ripe strawberry to growing
new plants from the seeds you harvested off it.

 1. Gently mash the strawberry up or put them in a blender at a very low setting. 
 2. Strain the strawberry pulp through a sieve and then rinse the seeds under the
    tap.
 3. Place the seeds on a coffee filter, paper towel, or wax paper to dry for 1-2
    weeks.
 4. Strawberry seeds need to be cold-stratified in order to germinate properly during
    the following spring. A common way to do this is by placing the seeds in the
    fridge or freezer for 4-6 weeks. You can stratify the seeds alone in a sealed
    plastic bag or sprinkle them on a small bed of growing medium and put the whole
    thing inside a plastic bag in the fridge. 
 5. Take the sealed bag out of the fridge after 4-6 weeks. Allow the sealed bag to
    come to room temperature for a few hours before opening it.  
 6. Plant your strawberry seeds in seed-starting trays using a sterile seed-starting
    mix - such as the Back to the Roots Natural and Organic 3-in-1 Seed Starting Mix
    available at Walmart. The seeds don’t need to be covered with soil, as they are
    quite small. 
 7. Because they are so small, it makes sense to water them with a mister rather than
    a traditional watering can.  
 8. Cover the seeds with a germination dome or clear plastic wrap for 2-4 weeks while
    they germinate. Keep the soil moist and remove the cover once sprouts are
    visible. An example of pots with germination domes for propagation is the MIXC
    Plant Nursery Pots with Humidity Dome available at Amazon

It can take around a month for strawberries seeds to germinate and you can grow them
on to then plant out in your yard, or container garden as you can very successfully
grow strawberries in pots. You are not likely to get any fruits off the plants in
their first year. That first year sees them get established and grow into strong and
healthy plants. It usually takes until the second year to get a first harvest of
strawberries off a plant grown from seed.

An alternative to mashing the strawberry up and straining it to get the seeds is to
thinly slice the strawberry and dry it out. This can then either be cold-stratified
to be planted indoors or planted outdoors – gently covered under a small layer of
soil to try and hide it from birds or bugs who may want to eat it – to over-winter
outside and then hopefully the seeds will germinate come the spring.

                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
Mary Jane Duford  

Mary Jane Duford
Social Links Navigation
 

Mary Jane Duford is a gardening expert and founder of the gardening blog Home for the
Harvest. Mary Jane is a Master Gardener-in-Training and a certified permaculture
garden designer. Her gardening blog is visited by millions of readers each year, from
the USA, UK, Canada, and around the world.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
A close up of a hand sowing seeds in


Sow strawberry seeds thinly and do not cover them as they are small in size


(Image credit: Getty/Instants)

Can you grow strawberries from a strawberry top?

With many vegetables and fruits you can regrow them from scraps, this includes
growing avocados, lettuce, and onions. Strawberries are not a fruit that can be
re-grown, as if you cut off a strawberry top and plant it in compost then it would
rot rather than sprout roots and grow. The only way that strawberries can grow from a
strawberry itself is to propagate new plants from the seed harvested from a ripe
strawberry.

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
A selection of red strawberries on a


Strawberries can only be propagated from division, by runners, or from seed


(Image credit: Getty/firemanYU)

Can you grow strawberries from store-bought strawberries?

It is possible to grow strawberries from store-bought strawberries, however it is not
a recommended way to get new plants. It is possible to get the seed from a strawberry
bought from a store or market and propagate a new plant from it as outlined above.
However, there are a couple of potential problems you could face. 

One is that store-bought strawberries could have been treated with chemicals that
could affect any growth. It is the same with many other crops, for example you should
not grow garlic from grocery store garlic as the bulbs have been treated with
chemicals to prevent them sprouting.

The other issue comes from the fact that you do not know exactly the type of
strawberry you could potentially be growing. Mary Jane Duford warns: ‘Most grocery
store strawberries are modern hybrid varieties. The seeds may not germinate and if
they do, will not grow into plants that produce berries of the same variety. It can
be a fun experiment for kids but likely won’t produce productive plants.’

Buying strawberries from local farms or farmers markets means you could potentially
find out more information about the strawberries from the growers themselves if you
want to try getting the seeds from those fruits. You would also know those
strawberries are suited for your climate, as many strawberries sold in stores are
produced in California or Florida and may not be suited to your zone. You want to
know that the plants you are growing will be happy in your climate and give you a
good harvest when it is time to pick strawberries.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Knowing how to grow strawberries from a strawberry gives you a simple and
budget-friendly way to get plants. Strawberries are so versatile and can be grown in
the ground, in raised beds or containers – and did you know you can even grow
strawberries indoors – that it pays to have many plants. This is especially true if
it is one of the strawberry varieties you really love and want more of. 

Sign up to the Homes & Gardens newsletter

Design expertise in your inbox – from inspiring decorating ideas and beautiful
celebrity homes to practical gardening advice and shopping round-ups.

[                    ][ ]Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands[ ]
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors[Sign me up]
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy
and are aged 16 or over.

                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
Drew Swainston    

Drew Swainston
Social Links Navigation
   
Content Editor

Drew’s passion for gardening started with growing vegetables and salad in raised beds
in a small urban terrace garden. He has gone on to work as a professional gardener in
historic gardens across the UK and also specialise as a kitchen gardener growing
vegetables, fruit, herbs, and cut flowers. That passion for growing extends to being
an allotmenteer, garden blogger, and producing how-to gardening guides for websites.
Drew was shortlisted in the New Talent of the Year award at the 2023 Garden Media
Guild Awards.

Latest

  • 
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
  • gray kitchen with oval din
    3 things people with organized freezers never do – steer clear of these mistakes
    for a tidy, streamlined space

    Avoid an avalanche of frozen foods and freezer-burned leftovers with this advice
    from the experts

    By Ottilie Blackhall Published 24 December 24

                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
  • Felco pole pruners cutting
    I tested the Felco 290 pole pruner – it was so easy to use I felt like I'd been
    given a gardening superpower

    I was unsure whether I'd be able to manage a pruner with an 8.5ft reach, but this
    Swiss brand really is worth the investment

    By Rachel Bull Published 24 December 24

Useful links

Advice

  • How to design a kitchen
  • How to design a bathroom
  • How to design a patio
  • Interior design: advice and tips
  • How to clean a washing machine

Pictures

  • Living room ideas
  • Bedroom ideas
  • Kitchen ideas
  • Bathroom ideas
  • Backyard ideas

Buying Guides

  • Best mattress
  • Best cordless vacuum cleaners
  • Best pillows
  • Best coffee makers
  • Best blenders

 

  • about us
  • Contact Future's experts
  • Advertise with us
  • Contact us
  • Terms and conditions
  • Privacy policy
  • Cookies policy
  • Careers

Homes & Gardens is part of Future plc, an international media group and leading
digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
© Future Publishing Limited Quay House, The Ambury, Bath BA1 1UA. All rights
reserved. England and Wales company registration number 2008885.

