Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Swiss Chard Plants: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Swiss chard                                                                                                                         
Caption

Swiss chard with its colorful stems.

Photo Credit
Nancy Kennedy/Getty Images
Botanical Name
Beta vulgaris var. cicla
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Part Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Bloom Time
Summer
Fall
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Swiss Chard

Catherine Boeckmann
June 13, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Learn how to grow Swiss chard—or simply “chard”—a member of the beet family. It does
well in both cool and warm weather. It is a nutritional superfood, high in vitamins
A, C, and K, as well as minerals, phytonutrients, and fiber. Plus, its rainbow of
colors is beautiful! See our Swiss chard growing guide for information from planting
to harvesting.

About Swiss Chard

Similar to beets, Swiss chard’s stems and leaves can be eaten cooked or raw. It is
prolific—leave plenty of room in the garden bed! Its mild flavor adds nutrition and
color to salads, pasta, pizzas, quiches, sandwiches, and more.

Swiss chard is very easy to grow, incredibly hardy, and a great choice for beginner
gardeners. And it looks beautiful in the garden, with broad, thick stems available in
colors ranging from pure white to golden yellow and even hot pink! 

Typically grown as a cool-season crop because it grows quickly and easily during the
cooler temperatures of spring and fall, chard is quite tolerant of hotter
temperatures, too. Its growth will slow down in summer, but chard’s higher heat
tolerance makes it a great salad green to grow when it gets too hot out for
the others.

Chard is a superfood, high in vitamins A, C, and K. It doesn’t have the bitter taste
that many other greens have, and it makes a good substitute for spinach or kale if
you’re not a fan of those superfoods. 

On top of all its virtues as a garden vegetable, chard is a lovely edible ornamental
plant, coming in many different colors to mix with landscaping or in containers. Why,
you could even use chard in a vase or bouquet, mixed with flowers, or on its own. Why
should flowers have all the fun?

Read Next

  • You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed
  • Edible Landscaping: Selecting the Right Plants
  • Edible Weeds: A List of 20 Edible Weeds in the Garden

Planting

Chard will tolerate partial sun, but grows best in full sun. It prefers a location
with moderately fertile, well-draining soil and a soil pH between 6.0 and 7.0
(slightly acidic to neutral). Before planting, mix aged manure and/or compost into
the soil to boost soil fertility. Scatter a general-purpose organic fertilizer on the
soil one week before sowing, then rake the soil to a fine tilth.

When to Plant Swiss Chard

  • For the spring season, plant chard seeds 2 to 3 weeks before the last spring
    frost date.
  • For a fall harvest, plant chard seeds about 40 days before the first fall frost
    date. (Many varieties will tolerate a light frost.)
  • Soak seeds in water for 24 hours before planting to speed germination. 

How to Plant Swiss Chard

  • When ready to plant, apply 5-10-10 fertilizer to the area.
  • Sow seeds 1/2 to 1 inch deep, 2 to 6 inches apart, in rows 18 inches apart.
  • Continue planting seeds at 10-day intervals for a month.
  • You can also start chard off in pots for transplanting later, which has the
    benefit of helping to prevent slugs from eating the young seedlings. This is also
    useful for succession planting, while you wait for space to become available in
    the garden. Once you’ve cleared out the previous crop, transplant the sturdy
    chard seedlings in the garden one foot apart, leaving 16in between rows.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Swiss chard growing in the garden                                               

Growing

  • When plants are 3 to 4 inches tall, thin to 4 to 6 inches apart, or 6 to 12
    inches if plants are large.
  • Use scissors to avoid disturbing nearby plant roots. You can eat the cuttings.
  • Chard usually does just fine without the use of fertilizer, but if yours seems to
    be staying small, consider applying a balanced fertilizer halfway through
    the season.
  • Water evenly and consistently to help it grow better. Water plants often during
    dry spells in the summer. Water regularly to promote plenty of fresh leafy growth
    and to stop the plants from running to seed, or ‘bolting,’ in dry weather. If
    they do bolt, they’ll no longer produce new leaves, so dig them up and add them
    to your compost pile.
  • Mulch the plants to help conserve moisture and suppress weeds. Keep your chard
    weeded using a hoe. 
  • When plants are about 1 foot tall, cut leaves back to 3 to 5 inches to encourage
    new tender growth, if chard plants become overgrown, they become less flavorful. 

Check out this video to learn how to grow Swiss chard:

Types

  • ‘Bright Lights’: Dark green leaves on multicolor stems; bolt-resistant but
    less frost-hardy.
  • ‘Fordhook Giant’: Dark green leaves, white stems; compact plants.
  • ‘Lucullus’: Green leaves, white stems; heat-tolerant.
  • ‘Peppermint’: Green leaves, pink-and-white striped stems; bolt-resistant; good
    for containers.
  • ‘Rainbow’: Red, pink, white, yellow, orange, and striped leaves and stems.
  • ‘Rhubarb’: Dark green leaves, deep-red stems; sow after risk of frost has passed
    or it may bolt.
  • ‘Ruby Red’: Green leaves, bright-red stems; sow after risk of frost has passed or
    it may bolt.

Harvesting

  • Begin to harvest when the plants are 6 to 8 inches tall, depending on which size
    leaves you desire.
  • Cut off outer leaves 1-1/2 inches above the ground with a sharp knife. Avoid
    damaging the plant’s center. Eat what you cut.
  • Harvest regularly, and the plants will produce continually. Use the
    “cut-and-come-again” harvesting technique, taking the largest, oldest leaves and
    leaving the young ones to continue growing. 
  • In fall, position row covers over the plants to keep the harvests coming
    for longer.
  • To extend the harvest, lift the plant, with roots in the soil, and transfer to a
    container in a greenhouse. Maintain the temperature at around 50°F. Initially,
    the chard will appear limp, but it should rebound.

How to Store Swiss Chard

  • Rinse off Swiss chard leaves and store them in the refrigerator in ventilated
    plastic bags.
  • To use, draw a sharp knife along the ribs to separate the leaves.
  • You can cook the ribs like asparagus (steamed, roasted, sautéed).
  • Cook chard leaves just like spinach. Strip the leaves away from the central
    stems, chopping them up and steaming or wilting them in a pan. The central stems
    can be cooked in the same way but take a little longer. They can be served with
    salt and melted butter, a rich hollandaise sauce, or dipped into the yolk of a
    soft-boiled egg.

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Swiss chard originated in—you guessed it—Mediterranean Europe! Oddly enough,
    chard is not native to Switzerland at all. According to legend, a Swiss botanist
    was responsible for determining chard’s scientific name, and the “Swiss”
    just stuck!
  • Embrace your leafy greens! Learn more about the health benefits of going green!

Pests/Diseases

                              Chard Pests and Diseases
  Pest/     Type           Symptoms                     Control/Prevention
 Disease
                                             Grow companion plants; knock off with
                                             water spray; apply insecticidal soap;
                   Misshapen/yellow leaves;  put banana or orange peels around
  Aphids   Insect   sticky “honeydew”        plants; wipe leaves with a 1 to 2
                   (excrement); sooty, black percent solution of dish soap (no
                   mold                      additives) and water every 2 to 3 days
                                             for 2 weeks; add native plants to invite
                                             beneficial insects
                   Many small brown spots
                   with red-purple halos on  Destroy infected plants; weed; avoid
Cercospora Fungus  leaves that enlarge and   overhead watering; ensure good air
leaf spot          turn gray; centers of     circulation; rotate crops
                   spots eventually fall
                   out, leaving the halos
   Flea            Numerous tiny holes in    Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
 beetles   Insect  leaves                    native plants to invite beneficial
                                             insects
   Leaf            Meandering blisters in    Remove infested leaves; weed; use row
  miners   Insect  leaves caused by          covers; till soil early in season;
                   tunneling larvae          rotate crops
                                             Handpick; avoid thick bark mulch; use
                                             copper plant collars; avoid overhead
                                             watering; lay boards on soil in evening,
                   Irregular holes in        and in morning dispose of “hiding” pests
  Slugs/   Mollusk leaves; slimy secretion   in hot, soapy water; drown in deep
  snails           on plants/soil; seedlings container filled with 1/2 inch of beer,
                   “disappear”               or sugar water and yeast, and sunk so
                                             that top edge is slightly above ground;
                                             apply 1-inch-wide strip of food-grade
                                             diatomaceous earth as barrier

Cooking Notes

  • Chard can be used in salads to add color, in smoothies, in soups and stews, on
    pizzas, in sandwiches in place of lettuce, in quiches, and anywhere you use
    spinach or kale (especially if you dislike the latter).
  • Swiss chard holds its shape well when cooked and adds a nutritious boost.

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a hand with seeds from a seed packer, with starter pots and potting soil

You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[veggie]                                                                

Edible Landscaping: Selecting the Right Plants

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[13smile_shutterstock_washed_dandelion_greens]                          

Edible Weeds: A List of 20 Edible Weeds in the Garden

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[spinach_by_deyan_georgiev_ss]                                          

10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[kohlrabi-close]                                                        

How to Grow Kohlrabi: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[greens]                                                                

Leafy Greens: Health Benefits

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Barbara (not verified)

3 years 6 months ago

This is my second year of growing chard. I did not know I could harvest and it would
keep growing! Entire website was very informative and interesting. Thank you for
sharing your knowledge.

  • Reply

Anna (not verified)

3 years 8 months ago

I let my swiss chard grow to about 12" tall. I remove the outside leaves, wash them &
trim most of the stalk off (they can be a little tough & bitter when grown that
tall). I stack the leaves on my cutting board & slice 1 -1 1/2" strips across the
leaves top to bottom. I toss them in my double boiler & let them steam for 5-7 min.
stirring them or turning them over every few min. to make sure all leaves are cooked.
I move the pot to the sink, empty the water from the bottom pot, put the top pot
(with the holes) back on the bottom pot, sit it aside & let the remaining water drain
out. You can use a skillet or the bottom pot - slice or mince some garlic - I've even
used just plain garlic powder (not garlic salt). Pour a thin layer of oil in your pan
/pot & throw in your garlic & let it cook a few min. (Does not need to be browned)
Add your steamed swiss chard, cook the chard to your liking. Add
more garlic & a little salt. This makes a great side dish or can be added to cooked
pasta
with romano and/or parmesan cheese. If you like garlic & swiss chard, You'll
definitely
like this. I also use this same recipe with fresh spinach leaves -delicious!

  • Reply

Nancy Stevenson (not verified)

4 years 1 month ago

On a trip to the Biltmore Estate last year I enjoyed a side dish at the Stable Café.
It had Swiss Chard, tomatoes, celery, and I'm not sure what else was in it but it was
delicious. I wish I could find that recipe!
This year I tried to grow some Swiss Chard with moderate success. Only one plant grew
but it keeps abundantly producing as long as I trim off the older leaves. It does
look attractive in my little side flower garden.

  • Reply

Xioling Von Noff (not verified)

4 years 9 months ago

We planted Swiss Chard in pots a couples of years ago, and they are still producing
big delicious stalks. Otherwise, we mulched the entire yard last winter and have been
greeted this spring by a massive increase in our earwig population. They keep coming
and like Swiss Chard as much as I do.

  • Reply

Kathi Valentine (not verified)

5 years 2 months ago

It's the end of September here in So. Calif. Do I still have time to plant Chard?

  • Reply

Cheryll (not verified)

5 years 7 months ago

Can I pot a chard plant in the center of a pot of flowers?Sounds attractive but will
it grow well I have previously mixed bell peppers with the flowers but the last few
years they weren’t very productive

  • Reply

The Editors

5 years 7 months ago

In reply to Growing Swiss Chard by Cheryll (not verified)

It would certainly be worth trying out, as long as the soil is rich and stays
relatively moist. Because the flowers will be taking their fair share of nutrients
and water from the soil, the Swiss chard likely won’t be as productive as it might be
otherwise, so I would advise applying an extra dose of fertilizer as the chard starts
to take off.

  • Reply

Lynn Barley (not verified)

5 years 8 months ago

I live in Lexington South Carolina, so you know it’s going to be extremely hot in
about another month. Does this plant thrive in full sun? I have never planned Chard
before but your article intrigued me and I thought I would give it a try. Thanks!

  • Reply

The Editors

5 years 8 months ago

In reply to Sun exposure for Swiss Chard by Lynn Barley (not verified)

Swiss chard is more heat tolerant than a number of other common greens, but its
growth will slow down when temperatures rise. If you plant it now, don’t expect a
particularly large harvest if the heat does arrive. In fact, you might be better off
waiting until late summer to plant for a fall harvest—it does best when it can mature
with cooler temps. In any case, be sure to keep it well watered, especially if grown
in full sun and in hotter temperatures. 

  • Reply

Jimmie Lindsey (not verified)

7 years 5 months ago

I keep a raised bed between 2 coops of chickens, yearly. It is very easy to grow and
last through the hot summer with daily watering as I service the flocks. I harvest it
as a cut (large outside leaves ) & come again. This year my husband built a high
tunnel frame for it to extend the harvest into early winter. When it is finally
finished, we clean out one of the coops right into the bed, turn it in & it is ready
for seed early next spring. The "Girls" love their beautiful chard!

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
