Farm Plan overview, 2025

Preface:
Growing a farm at Echo Base could be fun and very rewarding.  Let's do it!!

	TABLE OF CONTENTS:
		Preface.
		Table of Contents.
		Chapter 1.  Time to Plant!!
		Chapter 2.  How to Grow the Farm
		Appendix A:  Farm Map Legend
		Appendix B:  On Choosing Planting Sites
		Appendix C:  Farming Futures

	Chapter 1.  Time to Plant!!
This document was drafted 03/14/2025, and the snow has receded.  It's time to
plant!  But before we can plant, we must determine where we want to plant what.

  Please refer to the map, the Appendices A and B, and Step 2 of Chapter 2 for
the relevent information for chosing growing sites.  

Here's the whole plan in a nutshell:
	Step 0: Equipment, Supplies, and Start Seedlings Indoors.
	Step 1: Get materials to make raised beds.
	Step 2: Get ready to direct-seed early crops.
	Step 3: Build the raised beds (then fill them).
	Step 4: Maintain the gardens (and yourself).
	Step 5: Harvest, process, and store.
	Step 6: Post-season recap and planning.

Here's a breakdown of each step:

	Step 0 (done/doing):  Equipment, Supplies, and Seedlings.
		Source the seed, tools, manure, planters, and potting soil.
		Begin planting seeds indoors (onions, peppers, garlic, tomatoes, etc).
		Most seedlings should be started in flats (say, 5-10 seed per sq in).
		After the seeds sprout and the first leaves unfold, it's time to
		transfer them out of the flats and into pots.  Most plants will want
		well-draining potting soil and pots with drain holes in the bottom.
		It helps if the soil is pre-moistened.  Once full, make a hole in the
		soil with you finger, deep enough that dangling roots don't get bunched.
		Gently remove the seedlings by gently breaking up the potting soil to
		free the roots, and gently but firmly grasp the seedlings by their two
		starter-leaves and pull (gently).

	Step 1 (doing):  Gather materials from the forest
		for making raised beds.  This includes:
			* 4' and 8' poles (done);
			* rotting wood of all sorts; &
			* loam.
		NOTE:  Keep your forest healthy by avoiding overharvesting
			materials from an area.  The creatures that thrive there are
			what keeps it fertile, so don't decimate their populations.

	Step 2:  Get ready to direct-seed early crops.
		The first real work to do is to chose planting sites and seeding grain.
		So, where will we plant?  Field crops have different needs than crops
		grown in raised beds.  See Appendices A and B for more info on this.

		Fields should be tilled as soon as possible.  They can be tilled by hand
		using a broad-fork*.  Grassy sod should be discarded or composted.
		Now, most grains** can be scattered densly onto the tilled earth, gently 
		raked under about 1/2 inch, & covered with a 2 inch layer of straw
		before giving it a good soaking.  Keep up daily watering for the first
		week or two until the field has established itself.  In case of prolonged
		drought, soak weekly.

		The next major task is to build raised beds!

		* broad-fork. As the name suggests, this fork is so broad it has TWO long
		handles, perfect for getting good leverage.  It also has heavy-duty steel
		tines, intended for pushing through hard soil.  They're so useful, I have
		four of them!

		** most grains can be planted by scattering the seed, but corn might
		be better off planted in rows, do to it's size and it's sharp leaves.

	Step 3a:  Build the Raised Beds:
		At the planting site, build the raised bed frames 4'x8', digging up
		topsoil to make room for the rotting wood.  Mound up the rotting wood
		inside the frame, heaped up to about chest height if possible, putting 
		the hardest wood on bottom.  Inocullate the wood pile with liquid
		fertilizer.  Now, mix together the topsoil, manure, and loam.  Spread a
		foot of the mixture on top of the heap.  Now, give it a good watering! 
		For extra nitrogen, add some liquid fertilizer as you water.
	Step 3b:  Transfer plants into the raised beds, hardening off first.

			Repeat Step 3 as needed.

	Step 4: Maintain the gardens (and yourself).
		Many plants will want regular watering, especially during hot summers.
		Humans should stay hydrated, well-rested, and shaded as much as possible.
		As the growing season progresses, watch as the plants mature and produce
		their fruit.  Also watch out for signs of pests and disease (such as
		dusty mildew, which can plague sunflowers, peas, and tomatoes).  You may
		have to pull infected plants.
	
	Step 5:  Harvest
		Some things get done pretty quick, so you might be harvesting as early as
		late spring!  Green onions, strawberries, and micro-greens are examples.
			Harvest grain when stalks have yellowed significantly, some-time in
		early summer for most.  Plant millet or a cover-crop in it's wake.
		Let the gathered grain stalks air-cure for a week before threshing.
		Long-term storage must be arranged.
			You'll also soon be pulling out veggies from the raised beds!  When
		you do, replace what you take with new seedlings to make use of the whole
		growing season.  I keep my seeds organized by season to help me plant
		fast crops at the right time.
			Once summer ends, efforts turn to the considerable work of
		fully harvesting, processing, and storing all remaining crops.

	Step 6:  Post-Season
		Recap what went well and what didn't.  Plan for next year, and store your
		seed in dry paper envelopes in a cool dark place so they stay viable and 
		mold-free for next years planting.

Appendix A:  Farm Map Legend

	The farm map includes several sites that are defined here:

	Site 1:  Partial shade plot for cool-loving plants; driveway could also be
		expanded later to make loading and parking easier.
	Site 2:  Plot in full sun. 
	Site 3:  Plot in full sun.
	Site 4:  Plot in full and partial sun.
	Site 5:  Forested work site for prepping raised bed materials.
	Site 6:  Old barn site, pasture, and more.

Appendix B:  Choosing Planting Sites
	After calculating how much square footage to devote to grains & raised beds,
	chose plots that will meet the needs of the plants that will be living there.
	Plots in full sun could be grain fields or raised beds, depending on whether 
	or not it has easy access to water.  Grains will not thrive in partial sun,
	neither will partial-sun plots need as much watering.  Also, grains do not
	generally need to be watered, whereas most raised-bed plants will need
	frequent watering.  Keep these things in mind as your assigning plants to
	the plots available.
	
Appendix C:  Farming Futures
	Planting grains, sunflowers, and peas can help feed humans directly, but we
	could also consider keeping chickens somewhere on the property.  Chickens
	thrive on balanced diets of feed which could be produced on-site, in addition
	to plentiful free-ranging opportunities.  Feed would be a combination of the
	following foods and additives, all of which are locally available:
		* barley
		* buckwheat
		* corn
		* flax seed
		* millet
		* oats
		* peas
		* sunflower seed
		* wheat
		* crushed egg-shells (mineral additive)
		* wood ash (mineral additive)

	NOTE: statistics suggest each chicken requiring about 92 lbs of feed
	per year, but these stats do not take into account free-ranging.  Some
	farmers report only having to feed their chickens in the cold season,
	suggesting free-ranging as a powerful option for supplementing nutrition.
	
	Keeping chickens requires enough feed, a safe and dry coup (which requires
	daily locking and cleaning every few months or so), daily water, daily
	egg-gathering, and more.  That said, chickens provide vitamins and proteins
	that may otherwise be difficult to source.
