Growing a farm at Echo Base.  Let's do it!!
Here's the plan in a nutshell:

	Step 0 (done/doing):  Source the seed, tools, and manure.
		Begin planting indoors.

	Step 1 (doing):  Gather materials from the forest
		for making raised beds.  This includes:
			* 4' and 8' poles,
			* rotting wood of all sorts, &
			* loam.
		NOTE:  Keep you forest healthy by avoiding overharvesting
			materials from an area.  The creatures that thrive there are
			what keeps it fertile, so don't decimate their populations.

	Step 2:  Start planting ASAP:
		...And the first thing we plant is grains and sunflowers.
			"As soon as soil is workable, as the saying goes.
		So, we must define and declare some land as fields,
		and then we must turn them.  A low-impact yet effective method
		of turning fields by hand is by using a broad-fork*.  Grassy sod should
		be removed, perhaps to the compost heap or it's own pile, which will
		break down over time.  Now, most grains** can be scattered densly onto
		the turned earth, gently raked down, & covered with a 1-2" layer of straw
		before giving it a good soaking.  Keep up daily watering for the first
		week or two when it has established itself.  In case of prolonged
		drought, soak weekly.

		*broad-fork.  As the name suggests, this fork is so broad it has TWO long
		handles, perfect for getting good leverage.  It also has heavy-duty steel
		tines, intended for pushing through hard soil.  They're so useful, I have
		four of them!

		** most grains can be planted by scattering the seed, but corn might
		be better off planted in rows, do to it's size and it's sharp leaves.

	Step 3a:  Build the Raised Beds:
		At the planting site, build the raised bed frames 4'x8', digging up
		topsoil to make room for the rotting wood.  Mound up the rotting wood
		inside the frame, heaped up to about chest height if possible, putting 
		the hardest wood on bottom.  Inocullate the wood pile with liquid
		fertilizer.  Now, mix together the topsoil, manure, and loam.  Spread a
		foot of the mixture on top of the heap.  Now, give it a good watering! 
		For extra nitrogen, add some liquid fertilizer as you water.
	Step 3b:  Transfer plants into the raised beds, hardening off first.

			Repeat Step 3 as needed.

	Step 4:  Take a freaking break, but don't stop watering the beds as needed
		throughout the summer.
	
	Step 5:  Harvest
		Some things get done pretty quick, so you might be harvesting as early as
		late spring!  Green onions, strawberries, and micro-greens are examples.
			Harvest grain when stalks have yellowed significantly, some-time in
		early summer for most.  Plant millet or a cover-crop in it's wake.
		Let the gathered grain stalks air-cure for a week before threshing.
		Long-term storage must be arranged.
			You'll also soon be pulling out veggies from the raised beds!  When
		you do, replace what you take with new seedlings to make use of the whole
		growing season.  I keep my seeds organized by season to help me plant
		fast crops at the right time.
			Once summer ends, efforts turn to the considerable work of
		fully harvesting, processing, and storing all remaining crops.

	Step 6:  Post-Season
		Recap what went well and what didn't.  Plan for next year, and store your
		seed in dry paper envelopes in a cool dark place so they stay viable and 
		mold-free for next years planting.

