Tue 25 Jul 2023 09:39:33 AM EDT
	Freewriting

ugh, that was a lot of facebook.  I didn't tickle Nathan.  He needs some tickles.
He jumped on the couch, waiting.
There, I tickled him.


**********
Tue 25 Jul 2023 09:25:04 PM EDT
	Freewriting

Rent increases and unjust evictions are
described as unfortunate but unfixable in
the near-term, and that deregulation of
building construction will solve this by
adding to the market supply.  This is
Reaganomics for housing policy,
supply-side theory that has failed, but
does line the pockets of landlords and
developers.

Real-estate and landlord industries
characterize the protection of existing
residents through rent control or the
development of new housing supply as an
either/or proposition, but that's false.

Alternative:  Keep people in their homes,
push for long-term policies to bring down
land and housing costs, and build the
low-income housing supply we need.

Why are rents rising?  An analysis by
Zumper isolated venture capital as 
having the most direct effect on rising
rents.  Homes are being treated as
commodities instead of dwellings.
Speculation on land and housing is
driving our housing crisis.

Banks pushed sub-prime mortgages onto
people of color and working class 
communities, then later foreclosed on
those homes and assets.
Communities have no control over what is
built, who we build for, or who profits
off building.

Corporations are buying up land and
houses, and now there is a transfer of 
wealth from tenants and homeowners to
big corporations.  This is happening
after decades of federal divestment from
affordable housing.
Section 8 vouchers replaced public
housing, pushing public subsidies into
the private market.  As the gov't steps
out of the housing business, corps step
in.

Who in PA is pushing supply-side
economics as the solution to the housing
crisis? Or, what is going on in PA?

Rent control is mischaracterized by those
who push market supply-side economics,
associations that have a profit motive to
undermine tenant protections and conduct
their business w/out regulations on rents
and evictions.

"Filtering," a theory wherein a growing
housing supply would eventually produce
affordable homes as those units age and
new units are built, has no substantial
evidence.

Stabilizing rents will provide a window
to plan, build affordable homes, and
reinvest in public infrastructure.

Pursue a host of affordable housing
supply solutions.
- Inclusionary zoning is a start
- There is no new public housing being
built.
- Need funding for the construction of
	non-profit affordable housing.
- Housing should be considered public 
	infrastructure and historically one
	of the best market interventions has
	been heavy public investment.

Rent control is not a silber bullet, but
a lifeline for communities.  Rent control
protects the most vulnerable populations:
Seniors and disabled people on fixed
incomes, young people, and communities of
color.  These populations are
particularly vulnerable to rent gouging
and evictions by speculators.  Those that
do not support rent control and only
support adding market-rate supply do not
value those that already live here or the
most vulnerable among us.

Rent control is just part of the solution
to the housing crisis, but we will never
solve the crisis without it.

-Rent control stops rent gouging.
-Just (or "good") cause prevents unjust
evictions, which also helps prevent rent
gouging.
- Tenant unions bring solidarity and
	solutions to isolated and abused
	tenants.
- housing as a human right.
- fight back as a union with rent strikes
	against large landlords

But the landlords and contractors will
want face and solutions, right?

	EXAMPLES OF HOUSING AS A HUMAN RIGHT:
The aspects of the right to housing under
ICESCR include:
- availability of services
- infrastructure
- material and facilities
- legal security of tenure
- habitability
- accessibility
- affordability
- location and cultural adequacy.

UN-HABITAT is tasked w/ promoting housing
rights through monitoring systems and
awareness campaigns.

The Yogyakarta Principles is a document
about human rights in the areas of sexual
orientation and gender identity that was
published as the outcome of an internat'l
meeting of human rights groups in
Yogyakarta, Indonesia, in Nov '06:
	"Everyone has the right to adequate
housing, including protection from 
eviction, w/out discrimination and that
States shall a) take all necessary
legislative, administrative and other
measures to ensure security of tenure and
access to affordable, habitable,
accessible, culturally appropriate and
safe housing, not including shelters and
other emergency accommodation, without
discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation, gender identity or material
or family status; b) take all necessary
legislative, administrative and other
measures to prohibit the execution of
evictions that are not in conformity with
their international human rights
obligations, and ensure that adequate and
effective legal or other appropriate
remedies are available to any person
claiming that a right to protection 
against forced evictions has been
violated or is under threat of violation,
including the right to resettlement,
wich includes the right to alternative
land of better or equal quality and to
adequate housing, w/out discrimination."

Anna Franz runs Our West Bayfront at the
Read In.  She's part of a steering
committee around housing issues.

SSJ Neighborhood Network.

	RENTAL UNION:
Rental union introduction:
	Tenants in the city of Erie PA are
beginning to compile a list of demands.
One tenant with legitimate complaints
about building safety, high rent,
maintenance issues, landlord harassment,
and other harmful practices is easy to
ignore.  An organized group of tenants w/
a list of specific demands is more likely
to get a landlord negotiating.

No "official" recognition is required in
order for a tenant union to be legitimate
and impactful.  Federal law prohibits
housing discrimination, but doesn't
explicitly protect tenants' right to
organize collectively.

Rental union questions:
- What do you enjoy about your current
	living situation?
- How could your living conditions be
	improved?
- Are you willing and able to provide
	your landlords name and phone number?
	Your identity will remain anonymous.

