Findings of backrooms level 0(zero), despite the efforts of human scientists and
video journalists, are inconclusive.

For instance, according to backrooms-wiki.wikidot.com/level-0, "the CO[2] levels
within Level 0 are rising at a steady rate,"  They posit this claim "according to
analysis," but they do not define the who, what, when, why, or how the analysis
took place.  If the source of the research cannot be found, new research will be
required in order to confirm this claim and document its nature.
	One author of the very study you are in this very moment reading
believes that the hallucinations common to Level 0 would be exacerbated by CO[2]
if it exceeds levels well-tolerated by humans.  But that is beside the point,
which is that robust study of the backrooms by brave individuals is perpetually
required in order to confirm the nature of the experience.  Such robust study is
complicated for several factors:
	1) limited access to the backrooms themselves;
	2) the psychological limitations of humans;
	3) the mercurial nature of the backrooms experience.
The backrooms is very difficult to access directly, similarly to how lucid
dreaming is difficult to achieve.  In rare cases, small groups of scientests have
achieved semi-pernant access through the use of portals.  Unfortunately, their
skills are a unique commodity amonst the higher powers of earth, who wish to
control or destroy them.  Which brings us to our second point: humans are, by and
large, mentally ill-equipped for life in the backrooms.  Even brief exeriences,
if the subject is luck enough to return, can ruin the mind.  Journalism in the
face of such an otherworldly experience would be a harrowing challenge indeed.
Some do try, bravely recording their experience through modern cinematic
technology.  However, who's to know the true experience of our unfortunate
journalist, who no doubt suffered hallucinations the likes of which we likely
cannot fathom.  Furthermore, as supernatural (and otherwise unnatural) events
occur in the backrooms, the reliability of any recordings thereof are unreliable.
Finally, it is almost impossible to study scientifically because any given fact
of the backrooms may be subject to debate, from the continued presence 
of physical objects found within, to the conditions of individual rooms or the
Level as a whole.  Since time in the backrooms is practically meaningless,
most findings become practically worthless.
	Beware the claims of those who do not point to the source of their findings.
Do your research, humbly yet firmly, and you may confirm enough facts to unlock
the secrets of the backrooms.
