Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Beets: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[beets_by_darasp_kran_ss_crop]                                                                                                      
Photo Credit
Darasp Kran/Shutterstock
Botanical Name
Beta vulgaris
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Part Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Beets

Catherine Boeckmann
September 5, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
A staple in our gardens, beets grow easily in spring and fall, and you won’t have to
wait long to harvest their tasty roots. Enjoy their green tops, too—they’re a
dual-purpose crop. Learn all you need to know about growing beets—from planting
to harvest.

Beets are delicious, whether grated into salads, roasted in oil, boiled, or made into
soup (borscht). They’re also really easy and quick to grow from seed.

About Beets

Beets—or “beetroots”—are a colorful, cool-season crop that is easy to grow from seed
in well-prepared soil and grows quickly in full sun.

They are a great choice for northern gardeners because they can survive frost and
near-freezing temperatures. This also makes them great as a fall crop.

If you are a beginner, look for bolt-resistant varieties, which have less of a chance
of bolting (maturing too quickly) in warm weather. There are many different varieties
of beets, showcasing deep red, yellow, white, or striped roots of different shapes. 

Beetroots can be harvested from the time they’re about the size of a golf ball to the
size of a tennis ball; larger roots may be tough and woody. Plus, beet greens have a
delicious and distinctive flavor and hold even more nutrition than the roots!

Read Next

  • You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed
  • 10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather
  • Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops

Planting

Choose a planting site that gets full sun. Beets should ideally receive at least 6
hours of direct sunlight per day.

Beets grow best in well-prepared, fertile soil, but will tolerate average to low soil
fertility. A soil pH between 6.0 and 7.0 is best, and slightly alkaline (7.0+) soils
can be tolerated. Beets will not tolerate acidic soils (pH below 6.0). To allow the
round beetroots to develop properly, the soil should be free of rocks and
other obstacles.

Avoid planting beets where Swiss chard or spinach has recently been grown, as they
are cousins of beets and are susceptible to similar pests and diseases. 

When to Plant Beets

  • Start your first round of beets in early spring, as soon as the soil is workable.
    Make successive plantings every 2 to 3 weeks until mid-summer.
      □ Successive plantings are possible through summer as long as daytime
        temperatures don’t exceed 75°F (24°C).
  • In soil that’s at least 50°F (10°C), germination takes place in 5 to 8 days. In
    soil colder than that, germination may take 2 to 3 weeks.
      □ Tip: To speed up germination, or when planting in areas with low moisture and
        rainfall, soak the seeds in water for 24 hours before planting.
  • For a fall harvest, sow beet seeds from mid-summer through early fall, starting
    about 4 to 6 weeks before your first fall frost.
  • Winter crops are a definite possibility in Zone 9 and warmer. Plant beets in
    early to late fall for a winter harvest.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Beet plant with greens                                                          

How to Plant Beets

  • We prefer to sow beets directly in the garden so that we don’t have to disturb
    their roots. However, beets—unlike many root crops—do generally tolerate being
    transplanted while still young. Since they are cold tolerant, beets typically
    have no trouble being started outdoors, though.
  • Sow seeds ½-inch deep and 1 to 2 inches apart in rows that are about 12 to 18
    inches apart. After sowing, cover the seeds with a thin layer of soil.
  • Make sure the soil remains moist for optimal germination. Soak seeds for 24 hours
    prior to planting to speed up germination.

Beet seeds are actually capsules that contain several seeds, so you may get two or
three sprouts from each one.

Check out this video to learn how to plant beets:

Growing

  • Each wrinkled beet “seed” is actually a cluster of 2 to 4 seeds, so you will need
    to thin the young plants to 3 to 4 inches apart once the greens get to be about 4
    to 5 inches tall. This allows their roots to grow to their proper size.
      □ Tip: When thinning, don’t pull up the plants, as you may accidentally disturb
        the roots of the beets you want to keep. Instead, just snip or pinch off the
        greens (and eat them).
  • Mulch and then water regularly with about 1 inch of water per square foot per
    week. Beets need to maintain plenty of moisture in order to grow well.
  • Weed as needed, but be gentle around young plants; beets have shallow roots that
    are easily disturbed.
  • Consider covering beets with a row cover to prevent pests like leaf miners from
    attacking the plants’ leaves.
  • Supplementing with extra fertilizer is usually not necessary. If you do
    fertilize, go easy on nitrogen; excess will cause an abundance of greens but tiny
    bulbs beneath the soil.

Types

Beets come in quite a few shapes and a rainbow of colors. Deep red is typical, but
yellow and white varieties are also available, as are red-white ringed ones
(pictured below)!

  • ‘Chioggia’: red skin; when sliced open, reveals red and white concentric rings.
  • ‘Detroit Dark Red’: Sturdy, traditional variety. Round, red root.
  • ‘Formanova’: Long, cylindrical beets that grow in the same fashion as carrots.
    Excellent for canning.
  • Yellow varieties include ‘Bolder’ or ‘Touchstone Gold’
  • White varieties include ‘Avalanche’ or Dutch heirloom ‘Albino’

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Beet with rings of red and white                                                

Harvesting

  • Days to maturity tend to be between 55 and 70 for most varieties. In other words,
    plan to harvest beets about 2 months after planting.
  • Harvest roots when golf ball-size or larger; very large roots may be tough
    and woody.
  • Loosen the soil around the beet and gently pull it from the earth.
  • Harvest the beet greens at almost any time, beginning when thinning seedlings.
    Take one or two mature leaves per plant, until leaf blades are more than 6 inches
    tall and become tough. (Roots will not fully form without greens, so leaving some
    is necessary for proper development.) The leaves can be twisted off and cooked
    like spinach.  Or, see our recipe for Beet Greens Salad.
  • If you experience mild winters, you can leave roots sown later in the season in
    the ground to dig up as you need them. Or, store roots in boxes of dry sand in a
    cool, frost-free place.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Beets in the ground                                                             
Photo credit: Nadezhda Nesterova/Shutterstock

How to Store Beets

  • Fresh beets can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 to 7 days.
      □ Tip: Clipping the tops off beets will keep them fresher for longer. Leave
        about 1 inch of stem on each beet, and store the greens separately.
  • For long-term root cellar storage, make sure you brush off any soil clinging to
    the roots, then bury them in layers (but not touching) surrounded by dry
    sand or sawdust.
  • Store in a cool, dry place. An unheated closet might do, or put them in a cooler
    in your basement. Read more about a new way to store beets in the root cellar.
  • Sprouting is a sign of poor storage and leads to decay.
  • Beets can be frozen, canned, and pickled, too!
  • You can also freeze beet greens to use at a later date!

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Beets have long been considered an aphrodisiac:
      □ Ancient Greeks thought that Aphrodite, their goddess of love, used them to
        enhance her appeal.
      □ Romans believed that beet juice brought on amorous feelings.

Pests/Diseases

Beet Pests and Diseases

   Pest/     Type            Symptoms                     Control/Prevention
  Disease
                   Cercospora prefers warm/humid
                   conditions and damp nights.
Cercospora         Many small brown spots with   Destroy infected plants; weed; avoid
 leaf spot  Fungus red-purple halos on leaves    overhead watering; ensure good air
                   that enlarge and turn gray;   circulation; rotate crops.
                   centers of spots eventually
                   fall out, leaving the halos.
                   May include stunting, mottled Destroy infected plants; choose
 Cucumber          green/yellow/white pattern or resistant varieties and certified
  mosaic    Virus  ringed spots on leaves;       virus-free seed; use row covers;
   virus           distorted leaf growth.        disinfect tools; weed; control
                                                 aphids (carriers of CMV); use mulch.
   Flea            Numerous tiny holes in        Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
  beetles   Insect leaves—as if they’ve been hit native plants to invite beneficial
                   by a shotgun.                 insects.
                   White shed skins on leaf
                   undersides (from nymph        Knock nymphs off leaf undersides
                   molting); stippling (many     with strong spray of water; use row
Leafhoppers Insect tiny spots) on leaves;        covers; monitor adults with yellow
                   “hopperburn” (leaves yellow/  sticky traps; weed; destroy crop
                   brown, curled, or stunted);   residue at season end.
                   reduced yield.
                   Meandering blisters in leaves Remove infested leaves; weed; use
Leaf miners Insect caused by tunneling larvae.   row covers; till soil early in
                                                 season; rotate crops.
                                                 Trap by digging 2- to 4-inch-deep
                                                 holes every 3 to 10 feet, fill with
                                                 mix of germinating beans/corn/peas
                   Seeds hollowed; seedlings     or potato sections as bait, cover
 Wireworms  Insect severed; stunting/wilting;    with soil or a board, in 1 week
                   roots eaten; tubers/bulbs     uncover and kill collected
                   bored.                        wireworms; sow seeds in warm soil
                                                 for quick germination; provide good
                                                 drainage; remove plant debris;
                                                 rotate crops.

“Diseases on beets are most severe in cloudy, damp weather,” explains the Texas A&M
AgriLife Extension Service. “Check plants daily and treat them with an approved
fungicide if diseases appear. Neem oil, sulfur, and other fungicides are available
for use. Always follow label directions.”

 

Recipes

Pennsylvania Dutch Pickled Beets and Eggs
Beautiful Beet Soup
Salad of Goat Cheese, Beet, Fennel, and Citrus Vinaigrette
Apple and Beet Salad
Grandma’s Pickled Beets

Cooking Notes

Beets are a nutrient-dense food considered especially beneficial for health. Learn
more in “Beets: Health Benefits!”

About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a hand with seeds from a seed packer, with starter pots and potting soil

You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[spinach_by_deyan_georgiev_ss]                                          

10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[harvest-shutterstock_1357987358]                                       

Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Swiss chard                                                             

How to Grow Swiss Chard Plants: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Embedded thumbnail for Five Fresh Greens to Grow All Year Round                                                                     

Five Fresh Greens to Grow All Year Round

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a beginners guide to container gardening. tomatoes in a container/pot wi

Vegetable Container Gardening for Beginners

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Clarence (not verified)

2 years 4 months ago

1 tablespoon 3% hydrogen peroxide and 1 cup of water for 24 hours. Place a paper
towel in a container fold it over pour mixture over paper towel until damp unfold the
towel and spread seeds. fold towel again and add enough solution to keep damp over
night.

  • Reply

Ben (not verified)

2 years 6 months ago

So where can you grow them anywhere?

  • Reply

Anne (not verified)

1 year 5 months ago

In reply to So where can you grow them… by Ben (not verified)

Choose a planting site that gets full sun. Beets should ideally receive at least 6
hours of direct sunlight per day.

Beets grow best in well-prepared, fertile soil, but will tolerate average to low soil
fertility.

  • Reply

Janet Johnson (not verified)

2 years 9 months ago

In the summer I am suddenly bombarded with Japanese Beetles on my beautiful grape
vines what will get rid of them and not harm my pets?

  • Reply

Kathy Basso (not verified)

1 year 9 months ago

In reply to In the summer I am suddenly… by Janet Johnson (not verified)

Japanese beetles are mature grubs that are in your soil. Use milky spore on your
grass and soil (it’s organic). Spring is a great time to apply. It will kill the
grubs and eliminate the Japanese beetles. There are some milky spore brands that only
require one application

  • Reply

Roger Hansen (not verified)

9 months ago

In reply to Japanese beetles are mature… by Kathy Basso (not verified)

Japanese beetles fly long distances from where they hatched in grassy areas. All they
care about is mating & eating. Treating your yard for them will not stop the ones
flying in from golf courses & other folks' yards. They love Linden trees, birch &
crab apple trees, grapes, rose blossoms & respberries, among others. Brush them off
into a cottage cheese container that has water, a couple drops of dish soap & a quick
spray of flying insect spray. Some fly back out, but once they've been in the insect
spray & soap they will die quickly. Dispose of them in your garden, compost bin or
flower beds. I sometimes spray large clusters of them with flying insect killer.
Don't ever use the beetle traps. They draw in thousands of beetles from far away. I
did that once & gathered 5 gallons of them daily from the 3 traps I set out. A full
time job!

  • Reply

Roger Hansen (not verified)

9 months ago

In reply to Japanese beetles are mature… by Kathy Basso (not verified)

Japanese beetles fly long distances from where they hatched in grassy areas. All they
care about is mating & eating. Treating your yard for them will not stop the ones
flying in from golf courses & other folks' yards. They love Linden trees, birch &
crab apple trees, grapes, rose blossoms & respberries, among others. Brush them off
into a cottage cheese container that has waster, a couple drops of dish soap & a
quick spray of flying insect spray

  • Reply

Larry schuth (not verified)

1 year 10 months ago

In reply to In the summer I am suddenly… by Janet Johnson (not verified)

Wee had a pet duck. He loved them. We hold him and aim him at the beetles and they
were gone. He would eat 150 or more a day. In a few days they were hard to find.

  • Reply

Anne (not verified)

1 year 5 months ago

In reply to Wee had a pet duck. He loved… by Larry schuth (not verified)

Your Pet Duck ate 150 Beetles a day; good for him; ty~Quack-Quack~

  • Reply

Roger Hansen (not verified)

2 years 9 months ago

In reply to In the summer I am suddenly… by Janet Johnson (not verified)

If you have time & not too many grape plants, you can hold a cottage cheese container
that contains water & a drop of dish soap (about half full) under the beetles. Touch
them & they will usually roll off the leaves & into the water. If you have too many
for that, Raid flying insect spray works well on beetle clusters. Seven or Eight
spray works well also. I always spray some Raid into my soapy water when I start just
to make sure they don't escape. After you're done catching them, spray them again &
after a few minutes they make great fertilizer in your flowerbed or compost bin.

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
