Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Okra: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[okra]                                                                                                                              
Botanical Name
Abelmoschus esculentus
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Bloom Time
Summer
Flower Color
White
Yellow
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Okra

Catherine Boeckmann
June 20, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Okra thrives in warm weather and is traditionally grown in the southern U.S., though
there are varieties for northern growers, too. Once it’s harvest season, pick the
pods every day so it doesn’t get overripe and tough. See how to plant, grow, and
harvest okra.

About Okra

Many gardeners are discovering okra, and the range of this warm-weather crop has been
creeping northward and gaining in popularity. This plant not only grows edible
vegetables and beautiful flowers, but it is also rich in vitamin A and low in
calories, which makes it a great addition to your diet. 

If you look at the flower of okra, you’ll see a resemblance to a hibiscus flower.
It’s no coincidence—okra is a member of the hibiscus family!

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Okra flower                                                                     

Read Next

  • How to Grow Sweet Potatoes: The Complete Guide
  • Vegetables to Grow in Hot Weather
  • Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops

Planting

Okra needs full sun and hot weather with evening temperatures that are in the 60s
(Fahrenheit) or warmer. Soil needs to be fertile and well-drained neutral pH of 6.5
to 7.0. Before planting, mix aged manure and/or compost into the soil. 

When to Plant Okra

  • Sow okra directly into the garden 3 to 4 weeks before the last spring frost date
     and cover the plants with a 2- to 3-foot-high cold frame or grow tunnel until
    the weather warms up fully. Make sure that the covering is this high so that
    plants have room to grow. Or, to direct sow okra seeds without any protection
    from the cold, wait until the soil is 65° to 75°.
  • Where summers are short, especially in more northern areas, start okra seeds
    indoors in peat pots under full light 3 to 4 weeks before the last spring frost.

How to Plant Okra

Okra’s BB-pellet sized seeds have a hard shell. To speed germination, soak seeds for
a few hours in warm water before sowing.

  • Plant okra seeds about 1/2 to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart in a row. You
    can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination.
  • If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to
    give them ample room to grow.
  • Okra plants are tall, so space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart.

Growing

  • Eliminate weeds when the plants are young, then mulch heavily—4 to 8 inches—to
    prevent more weeds.
  • During the growing season, Joseph Masabni of Texas A&M recommends that you
    “cultivate around the okra plants to remove weeds and grass. To avoid damaging
    the okra roots, pull weeds close to the plants by hand.”
  • Side-dress the plants with 10-10-10, aged manure, or rich compost (1/2 pound per
    25 feet of row). You could also apply a balanced liquid fertilizer monthly. Avoid
    too much nitrogen, which deters flowering and encourages leafy growth. Learn more
    about soil amendments and preparing soil for planting.
  • When the seedlings are about 3 inches tall, thin the plants so that they are 18
    to 24 inches apart.
  • Keep the plants well watered throughout the summer months. One inch of water per
    week is ideal, but use more if you are in a hot, arid region.
  • High heat can slow the growth of okra.
  • Prune the tops of okra plants when they reach 5 to 6 feet tall. This will result
    in more side branches. Prune those as needed.
  • In warm regions, some growers cut plants to about 2 feet when productivity slows
    in summer. The plants grow back and produce another crop of okra.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[okra]                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

Photo credit: Chunumunu/GettyImages

Note: Okra has large, hairy leaves, as well as tiny spines on its pods, both of which
may cause skin irritation; consider wearing gloves and/or long sleeves when handling.
“Spineless” types have pods that don’t present this problem. Regardless of type,
irritation does not occur when you eat okra.

Types

Standard varieties can top 8 feet or more! Dwarf types, which seldom exceed 5 feet in
height, are best for containers. 

  • ‘Blondy’: spineless; dwarf at 3 feet tall; pale green 3-inch pods; ideal for
    northern growers
  • ‘Burgundy’: abundant 6- to 8-inch pods (harvest at 3 inches) on 3- to 5-foot-tall
    plants; edible ornamental, with deep red stem, branches, leaf ribs, and fruit
  • ‘Cajun Jewel’: dwarf at 2 1/2 to 4 feet tall; tasty 8-inch pods up to 1 inch
    in diameter
  • ‘Clemson Spineless’: tasty 6 1/2-inch to 9-inch pods on 4-foot tall plants
  • ‘Louisiana Green Velvet’: spineless; vigorous to 6 feet tall; good for
    large areas

Harvesting

When you harvest okra, get out the gloves and wear a long-sleeved shirt to protect
yourself from the tiny spines that can make your hands and arms itch for days. 

  • Once okra is ripe, harvest every day! The pods grow so fast and ripen within a
    day, so you need to pick continually. Overripe okra is too tough to eat. 
  • The best pods are only 2 to 4 inches long. This is when okra is at its softest
    and most digestible.
  • Cut the stem just above the cap with a knife. If the stem is too hard to cut, the
    pod is probably too old and should be tossed.
  • Only one pod grows beneath each leaf, so break off the leaf after harvesting
    the pod. 

                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                          
[okra]                                                                                                                                                                    

Photo credit: fz750/GettyImages

  • Harvest often: The more you pick, the more flowers will appear, and okra goes
    from flowering to fruit in a few days.
  • A severe freeze can damage pods. If one is predicted and pods are drying on the
    plant for seeds, cut the plant and hang it indoors to dry. Put a paper bag over
    it so if the pods shatter, the seeds will not be lost.

In the South, regular okra plants can get too tall to harvest; if this happens, cut
them back to 12 to 18 inches above the ground. This is usually done in July or
August. The plants will sprout again to make a second crop. Otherwise, consider a
dwarf variety!

How to Store Okra

  • To store okra, put the uncut and uncooked pods into freezer bags and keep them in
    the freezer. Or wash and blanch okra before freezing. 
  • Or, can okra to have it throughout the winter.

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Okra is sometimes called “lady’s fingers” thanks to the vegetable’s long,
    slender, elegant shape.
  • Thomas Jefferson determined freshness by bending the pod: If it gave, it was too
    old. If it broke, it was just right.
  • Thomas Jefferson grew okra in the vegetable gardens at Monticello. “An heirloom
    cultivar, ‘Cow’s Horn,’ may be very similar to the ones he grew,” explains Craig
    R. Andersen, Associate Professor at the University of Arkansas.
  • If an okra stem is too hard to cut, the pod is probably too old. Dry it out and
    use it in floral arrangements, or save the seeds for next year.
  • “You can have strip pokra—Give me a nice girl and a dish of okra.” 
    –Roy Blunt, humorist (b. 1941)

Pests/Diseases

                               Okra Pests and Diseases
  Pest/      Type             Symptoms                    Control/Prevention
 Disease
                                                 Grow companion plants; knock off
                    Misshapen/yellow leaves;     with water spray; apply insecticidal
                    distorted flowers/fruit;     soap; put banana or orange peels
  Aphids   Insect   sticky “honeydew”            around plants; wipe leaves with a 1
                    (excrement); sooty, black    to 2 percent solution of dish soap
                    mold                         (no additives) and water every 2 to
                                                 3 days for 2 weeks; add native
                                                 plants to invite beneficial insects
                    Plants wilt (sometimes on
                    just one side) in daytime;   Destroy infected plants; avoid
 Fusarium           leaves turn yellow (lower    excessive nitrogen; in acidic soils,
   wilt    Fungus   ones first); later,          raise pH to 7.0; choose resistant
                    entire plant wilts/dies;     varieties; disinfect tools; rotate
                    stunting; stem cross section crops
                    reveals brown discoloration
                    Leaves skeletonized (only
 Japanese  Insect   veins remain); stems/flowers Handpick; use row covers
 beetles            /fruit chewed; grubs feed on
                    roots
                    Typically, white spots on    Destroy infected leaves or plants;
                    upper leaf surfaces expand   choose resistant varieties; plant in
 Powdery   Fungus   to flour-like coating over   full sun, if possible; ensure good
  mildew            entire leaves; foliage may   air circulation; spray plants with 1
                    yellow/die; distortion/      teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1
                    stunting of leaves/flowers   quart water; destroy crop residue
                                                 Destroy crop residue, including
Root-knot           Roots “knotty” or galled;    roots; choose resistant varieties;
nematodes  Nematode plants stunted/yellow/wilted solarize soil; add aged manure/
                                                 compost; disinfect garden tools;
                                                 till in autumn; rotate crops
                    Yellow/white blotches on     Destroy crop residue; handpick (bugs
                    leaves; scarred, dimpled, or emit odor, wear gloves); destroy
Stinkbugs  Insect   distorted fruit/pods;        eggs, spray nymphs with insecticidal
                    shriveled seeds; eggs, often soap; use row covers; weed
                    keg-shape, in clusters on    diligently; till soil in fall
                    leaf undersides
                                                 Remove infested leaves/plants; use
                    Sticky “honeydew”            handheld vacuum to remove pests;
                    (excrement); sooty, black    spray water on leaf undersides in
                    mold; yellow/silver areas on morning/evening to knock off pests;
Whiteflies Insect   leaves; wilted/stunted       monitor adults with yellow sticky
                    plants; distortion; adults   traps; spray with insecticidal soap;
                    fly if disturbed; some       invite beneficial insects and
                    species transmit viruses     hummingbirds with native plants;
                                                 weed diligently; use reflective
                                                 mulch

Recipes

Slow Cooker Jambalaya Soup
Pickled Okra

Cooking Notes

Okra can be consumed in a number of ways—breaded and deep-fried, pickled, stewed (in
Indian cuisine), air-fried (a reader favorite), and even raw in the field! Of course,
the most famous okra dish is probably gumbo. 

For a nice stewy dish, simmer fresh tomatoes and onions and perhaps some pre-fried
bacon pieces. Add chopped okra. On the stove, cook for 25 minutes, and the soft
insides of okra will help create a nice thick, savory broth to serve over rice.

Or, try roasting okra to bring out its natural nuttiness. Just remove the cap, split
lengthwise, and roast on a baking sheet for 25 minutes; we cover with aluminum foil
for the first half of cooking.

 

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[sweet-potatoes_ssbonnietaylorbarry]                                    

How to Grow Sweet Potatoes: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[pepper-2871165_1920_full_width]                                        

Vegetables to Grow in Hot Weather

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[harvest-shutterstock_1357987358]                                       

Guide on Harvesting Vegetables: When to Harvest Most Common Crops

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Coneflowers are among the easiest perennials to grow in your carefree ga

20 Easy-to-Grow Perennial Flowers for Beginners

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[photo_2578]                                                            

A Cook's Garden: Corn, Okra, Shallots

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Swiss chard                                                             

How to Grow Swiss Chard Plants: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Tim Brown (not verified)

4 months 2 weeks ago

How to get it ready for winter

  • Reply

Anna Larsen (not verified)

4 months 3 weeks ago

My okra gets about a foot tall and then quits growing. It has very few pods. I live
in Colorado. Any ideas about how to get it to grow taller and and have more pods?

  • Reply

Rick (not verified)

6 months 1 week ago

Thanks for sharing

  • Reply

josh (not verified)

11 months ago

how to pick okra

  • Reply

The Editors

11 months ago

In reply to how to pick okra by josh (not verified)

Hi, Josh,

You can find information on how to pick okra under the “Harvesting” section of the
article above. In general, okra is ready to harvest in about 60 to 70 days. You want
to look for pods about 2 to 4 inches long (about 3 to 6 days after flowering). Much
bigger, and the okra can become tough and stringy. (Round-podded varieties may remain
tender at larger sizes.) Wear gloves and long sleeves, as okra has tiny spines that
can irritate the skin. Use a sharp knife or pruning shears to cut the pod off the
stem, leaving about 1/4 inch of stem on the pod; handle pods carefully, as they are
easily bruised. Keep harvesting at least every other day to encourage more pods to
form. If a pod gets too big, remove it from the plant and discard (or use it in
flower arrangements); leaving it on the plant may slow the development of
other pods. 

When buying okra at a store, look for bright green, firm (but not hard) pods that are
a maximum of 4 inches long. Avoid any that are limp/soft, dried, dull in color,
or moldy.

Hope this helps!

  • Reply

Brent Murray (not verified)

1 year 3 months ago

Your “cooking tips” failed to mention air frying which has become our favorite way of
preparing.

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 3 months ago

In reply to Your “cooking tips” failed… by Brent Murray (not verified)

Thanks for adding this in! We love to hear what our Readers love.

  • Reply

CP (not verified)

1 year 4 months ago

Love Okra, can be an acquired taste, but it's all in the cooking. A bag of Gumbo
base, veggies, meat, and okra gumbo is the best over rice with your favorite spices.
Fried is always a favorite, lot more work. The infamous slime comments are what turn
most people off who've not had it before. Add a diced tomato, or a teaspoon of Apple
Cider Vinegar, and a dash or two of brown sugar to counter vinegar, and the slime is
dissolved.

  • Reply

Allyssa (not verified)

1 year 6 months ago

One use of old okra pods is a craft project for kids. Let mature pods dry--on plant
if possible. You will know when they are dry because they turn brown. Snap off plant.
Rub off any spines with a towel or light sandpaper. Paint the sides colors of your
choice, you can add glitter, bows, whatever. They look amazing on Christmas trees and
best of all, they rattle!

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 5 months ago

In reply to One use of old okra pods is… by Allyssa (not verified)

Such a fun idea; thanks, Allyssa!

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
