The Baeldung logo  

  •  
  • The Baeldung LogoLinux SublogoLinux Sublogo
  • Start Here
  • Guides ▼▲
      □ 
        Administration

        A collection of guides on Linux system administration

      □ 
        Scripting

        Basic and advanced scripting on Linux.

      □ 
        Networking

        The building blocks for machine-to-machine communication

      □ 
        Files

        Deep dive into working with Files on Linux.

      □ 
        Processes

        Learn about managing Linux processes and threads

      □ About ▼▲
          ☆ 
            Full Archive

            The high level overview of all the articles on the site.

          ☆ 
            About Baeldung

            About Baeldung.

          ☆  
          ☆  
          ☆  
       
        Set Default Profile for PulseAudio

        Last updated: April 21, 2024

        [Samuel-150]
        Written by: Samuel Njuguna Karanja
        [e8d8dd08f8]
        Reviewed by: Korbin Brown
          ☆ Administration
          ☆ audio
          ☆ PulseAudio
        Baeldung Pro – Linux – NPI EA (cat = Baeldung on Linux)
        announcement - icon

        It's finally here:

        >> The Road to Membership and Baeldung Pro.

        Going into ads, no-ads reading, and bit about how Baeldung works if you're
        curious :)

        Partner – Orkes – NPI EA (tag=Kubernetes)
        announcement - icon

        Modern software architecture is often broken. Slow delivery leads to missed
        opportunities, innovation is stalled due to architectural complexities, and
        engineering resources are exceedingly expensive.

        Orkes is the leading workflow orchestration platform built to enable teams
        to transform the way they develop, connect, and deploy applications,
        microservices, AI agents, and more.

        With Orkes Conductor managed through Orkes Cloud, developers can focus on
        building mission critical applications without worrying about
        infrastructure maintenance to meet goals and, simply put, taking new
        products live faster and reducing total cost of ownership.

        Try a 14-Day Free Trial of Orkes Conductor today.

        1. Overview

        PulseAudio is a sound server in Linux that’s used to manage audio input and
        output for multiple applications. We can improve its performance and
        compatibility by configuring it to use a default profile for audio devices.
        This configuration enhances our audio experience, especially if we have
        multiple audio devices.

        In this tutorial, we’ll discuss various ways to set a default profile for
        PulseAudio. We’ll use the pactl command in terminal and modify the
        PulseAudio configuration file. To demonstrate, we’ll focus on the GNOME
        desktop environment.

        2. Understanding Pulseaudio Profiles

        PulseAudio profiles are used to manage audio devices on our system. Each
        profile determines how PulseAudio interacts with the hardware, including
        the input and output channels, sample rates, and audio formats. Some common
        profiles include analog stereo output + analog stereo input, analog stereo
        duplex, and digital stereo output.

        So, let’s start by checking all available profiles for our audio devices
        using the pacmd command:

        $ pacmd list-cards
        1 card(s) available.
            index: 0
                name: <alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0>
                driver: <module-alsa-card.c>
                owner module: 7
                ...
                properties:
                        ...
                profiles:
                        input:analog-stereo: Analog Stereo Input (priority 32833, available: unknown)
                        output:analog-stereo: Analog Stereo Output (priority 39268, available: unknown)
                        output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo: Analog Stereo Duplex (priority 39333, available: unknown)
                        ...

        Above, we display detailed information about all available audio cards,
        including their profiles. From our output, we have an audio card with an
        index of 0 named alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0.

        At this point, we’ll identify the desired profile to set as default. In
        particular, let’s set output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo as the
        default profile.

        2.1. Using the pactl Command

         pactl is a command line tool used to control the PulseAudio server. Here,
        we’ll use it to set a default profile for PulseAudio.

        To begin, let’s check the syntax we’ll use:

        $ pactl set-card-profile <card_name_or_index> <profile_name>

        Let’s examine this syntax:

          ☆ set-card-profile – represents a sub-command of pactl that instructs
            PulseAudio we want to change the profile of a specific audio card
          ☆ <card_name_or_index> – specifies the name or the index number of the
            audio card we want to configure
          ☆ <profile_name> – specifies the profile we want to set for the specified
            audio card

        Next, let’s set output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo as the default
        profile for the alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0. audio card:

        $ pactl set-card-profile alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0 output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo

        If no error occurs, we’ve successfully set the default profile.

        2.2. Modifying the PulseAudio Configuration File

        On the other hand, we can directly modify the PulseAudio configuration
        file. Furthermore, using this file allows us to customize various settings
        and behaviors of the PulseAudio server. It’s usually located at /etc/pulse/
        default.pa.

        Firstly, let’s open the configuration file:

        $ sudo nano /etc/pulse/default.pa

        Here, we use sudo to open the /etc/pulse/default.pa file with superuser
        privileges in the nano text editor.

        While in the configuration file, we’ll look for a section that loads
        module-udev-detect. To clarify, this module is used to detect and configure
        audio devices:

        ...
        .ifexists module-udev-detect.so
        load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
        ...

        Within this section, we’ll find a line load-module module-udev-detect
        tsched=0 and below it add a line specifying the default profile for our
        audio device:

        ...
        load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
        set-card-profile alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0 output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo
        ...

        Above, we set the profile of the alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0 audio card to
        use analog stereo for both input and output. This configuration is suitable
        for playing and recording audio using standard stereo channels. Now, let’s
        save the file and exit the text editor.

        Finally, to apply the changes, we need to restart the PulseAudio service:

        $ pulseaudio -k

        The above command restarts the PulseAudio service. This reloads the
        configuration file and applies the changes.

        3. Conclusion

        In this article, we discussed setting a default profile for PulseAudio.
        Firstly, we identified all the available profiles on our system. Then, we
        set a default profile for PulseAudio using pactl in the command line.

        Also, we learned to set the default profile by directly modifying the
        PulseAudio configuration file. So, pactl is useful for quick and temporary
        changes. However, modifying the PulseAudio configuration file makes a more
        permanent change that applies every time PulseAudio starts up.

        The Baeldung logo
       
        Categories

          ☆ Scripting
          ☆ Installation
          ☆ Search
          ☆ Web
          ☆ File Editing
          ☆ File Searching
          ☆ File Conversion
          ☆ Docker
       
        Series

          ☆ Linux Administration
          ☆ Linux Scripting Series
          ☆ Linux Networking Tutorials
          ☆ Linux Files
          ☆ Linux Processes
          ☆ Linux Installation
          ☆ Linux Filesystem Guide
       
        About

          ☆ About Baeldung
          ☆ Baeldung All Access
          ☆ The Full Archive
          ☆ Editors
          ☆ Our Partners
          ☆ Partner with Baeldung
          ☆ eBooks
          ☆ FAQ
          ☆ Baeldung Pro
          ☆ Terms of Service
          ☆ Privacy Policy
          ☆ Company Info
          ☆ Contact
        Privacy Manager
        The Baeldung Logo
