I was recently asked if I am still a Christian.  The answer?  Depends, but probably not!  Let's get into it!

First, how does one become a Christian?  Some folk believe you become a Christian when you say the sinners prayer.  Others believe it requires water baptism in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.  Still others believe it requires publically proclaiming belief in a risen Jesus of Nazereth.  Some think it's as simple as unlocking the door of your heart when Jesus knocks.  Others think salvation can only be confirmed through miracles such as healings and speaking in tongues.  The confusing bit is: all of these beliefs are at least somewhat biblically based, and I haven't yet complicated things by mentioning the Book of Mormon, or other works found within Christian Science, the Jehovah's Witnesses, or Judaism.  Nor have I mentioned the many major differences between Protestantism and Catholocism.  Suddenly something that seemed so simple becomes quite complicated.  Now, one might argue that you can be a Christian without being aware of other faiths.  After all, isn't that how faith works, "You know that you know that you know?"  Problem is, lots of people know that they know that they know, but they don't all know the same stuff.

So which stuff is the right stuff?  Can it be found in the King James Version of the Bible (strictly excluding the dubious Apocrypha, of course)?  Or perhaps we should all read the Book of Mormon?  Can "the right stuff" include the most recent issue of the Watchtower?  Or must it only include a weekly sermon given by your own Spirit-led pastor?  Must we learn Latin, Greek, and Aramaic, grab our concordance and Haley's Handbook, and get into the nitty gritty in order to reveal the truth that God laid out for every man, woman and child?  Perhaps the right stuff might be found in other holy Scriptures such as the Bhagavadgita or the Quran?  Or perhaps we must narrow our search for truth and exclude all but the Pentatuch and the Prophets?  It all depends on who you ask.

That's kinda scary, if you're worried about people going to hell.  That's why most Christians care so much about making sure other people become and stay Christian, after all.  They want to rejoice with you in heaven.  But who gets to go to heaven?  Is it the Catholic, who has been led to trust in the power of the sacrements and the need for ongoing confession?  Is it the Nazerene who has been taught the requirement to attain Entire Sanctification while on earth?  Is it the rasta, the episcopalian, the messianic jew, the amish man?  The spirited pentacostal?  The offensively strict anabaptist?  Each one is given different requirements and freedoms, derived from long-held traditions and scriptural teachings.  Each one claims to know the way, by faith in Jesus through belief in the Bible.  They can't all be right, of course, which is why they fight about who's right.  But most of them agree that the Bible is perfect and holy.

But it's not. It is but a collection of scrolls compiled and canonized over the course of two millenia, much of it written by who knows who after centuries of oral history, and who knows how much of it has been removed and long forgotten.  It is a book that has been altered and misused by priests and polititians, sworn by and worshipped and killed over even though it is not perfect or even verifiable.  But faith makes the impossible seem possible, providing rose-colored reading glasses to those who need to believe.  Faith is a mystical journey, but so can life be without faith, and all the more cohesive it seems.

So, I reject the hypothosis that any scripture is needed, or that any salvation is needed other than salvation from one's own fear and desire.  Such a salvation requires no faith or scripture.  I have overcome fear of eternal hell, having faith that any Loving Father will not fail to rescue their poor, stupid child from the fire.  I do not expect an eternal heaven, for life is always changing with ups and downs, then we die.  And I reject the strings attached to the Bible or any other scripture, for those strings have only ever bound me to fear and desire and the whims of clergy and laymen alike.  I am now free:  free to serve, free to love, free to live, free to die.  Free from faith-based fears and desires.

At this point, you probably have your answer as to whether or not I am a Christian.  Perhaps you think I am because I strive to live simply and freely and honestly in service to others.  Perhaps you think I am not because I reject the Bible as the ultimate source of truth.  The answer you derive depends upon your own beliefs.  And perhaps there is no right or wrong answer, since it's all so galactically complex.  However things pan out, I hope we can see eye to eye and just exist happily together, ya know?  Eat good food, do good things for others... "live, laugh, love," as they say.  After all, you're good people, Jesus or no Jesus.

