Sat 13 Jul 2024 10:54:31 AM EDT

There is an exposed nail popping out of the papasan chair downstairs.  It sliced Linnea's toe, yee-ouch!  So now, on to the show!
Linnea and I went skydiving yesterday for the first time.  We each were strapped to the belly of a man with a parachute.  They did all the work.  It went like this.
After getting our harnesses strapped around our chest and butt, we were led to the hanger where we met our tandem jump instructers.
They explained the jump routine, which we've heard at this point for the third time, and promised we'd hear it a fourth.
The plane gets ready for take off, and we follow close by our instructors into the noisy vehicle.
The plane starts to move backwards, or so I thought (we were facing away from the propellers).
Faster and faster the plane goes until it's nose points into the air, and we're taking off.
We climb up to about cloud level, at which point they roll open the heavy plastic jump door of the hot plane.
For fresh air, they said.  Until something wild happens:  someone jumps out of the plane!
We knew it was coming, of course.  But it was still wild.
For now, no one else is jumping.  The first jumper was doing a low-altitude jump.  The rest of us keep climbing.
Higher and higher and higher we climb.  It takes ten or twenty minutes to reach 13,000 feet, far above the puffy white clouds.
The tandem instructors bind themselves tightly to their wards, giving us our instructions one last time.  They say:
"grab onto your harness at the chest.  Lean your head back against my right shoulder.  Crouch, and we jump on three!"
The air is cold now.  There is a buzzing sound as a red light turns on: almost time to jump!
The jumpers near the front all have their own parachutes.  They begin to give each other fist bumps as they prepare to jump.
One at a time, they begin to exit.  A group of three jumpers all jump out together, to fall in a formation.
Pretty soon, it's the tandem jumpers turn.  I watch as my wife falls out of the door, gritting her teeth in terror.
Then, it's my turn.  We make our way to the edge of the door.  My brain cannot comprehend the distance down to earth.
One, two, three.
I cannot keep my eyes open as we tumble into the cold, thin air.
We tumble and spin until the instructor gets us into the correct free-fall position, which is face down.
He gives me the signal (a tap on the sholder), and I let go of my harness.  I'm plummetting face-down toward earth.
We free-fall for about a minute.  I am paralyzed and stupified by incomprehensible fear.
I realize at some point that I may not be breathing enough, so I take a deep breath and give a big "woo-hoo!"
Suddenly, powerfully, painfully, the harness jerks me into an upright position as the parachute opens.
We are now hanging under a canopy of nylon in the middle of the sky.  We're still a long way up, and I feel dangerously exposed.
The instructor gently yet enthusiastically coaches me through the overwhelming experience, steering us this way and that.
He points toward the citiscape in the distance.  Downtown Cleveland.  And there on the horizon, Lake Erie.
The instructor steers us skillfully, swinging us this way and that by pulling straps attached to the canopy.
We eventually make our way through the sky.  Eventually we navigate toward the grass and clay landing zone.
The instructor explodes into action, pulling this way and that to steer us into a landing routine.
We're flying straight forward now as we make our final descent.
We stick our legs in front of us, skidding to a stop on our butts.  The canopy drifts over us, crumpling to a heap in front of us.
The instructor congradulates me on my first jump as he unstraps himself from my back.
He says, "You're free to stand up now, when you're ready."
I find my wife, who landed safely before me.  We are in shock as we greet each other, stupified.



