Skip to content
BashScript.net
Menu

  • Home
  • What is Bash Script
  • About

 

Bash Script to Accept Input from Pipe and Process Data

December 20, 2024 by Lucas Rees

In the world of automation and scripting, Bash scripts are indispensable tools for
processing data. This article aims to guide you through creating a Bash script that
efficiently accepts input from a pipe, reads the data line-by-line, and processes
it effectively. Whether you are looking to automate repetitive tasks or handle
piped data seamlessly, this script can be an essential addition to your toolkit.

Prerequisites

  • Basic knowledge of Bash scripting
  • Familiarity with command line operations
  • Understanding of variables and functions in Bash
  • Awareness of input/output redirection in shell

DID YOU KNOW?

Almost all Unix-like operating systems support piping, which allows you to connect
multiple commands in sequence, passing output from one command to the next!

The Script

This script will read input data from the standard input (stdin), process each
line, and perform a specific action on the data. Below is a simple script example
that trims whitespace from the start and end of each line:

#!/bin/bash

while IFS= read -r line; do
    echo Piped data: "${line}" | xargs
done

Step-by-Step Explanation

NOTE!

This script uses the read command to read input line-by-line and xargs to trim off
any excess whitespace.

The following steps break down how the script works and what each component does:

 1. Shebang: The script starts with #!/bin/bash, indicating that it should run in
    the Bash shell.
 2. Reading Input: The line while IFS= read -r line; do sets up a loop to read from
    standard input line-by-line.
 3. Processing Each Line: Inside the loop, echo "${line}" | xargs is used to remove
    any leading or trailing whitespace from each line.
 4. Ending the Loop: The loop ends with done, which signifies that all input has
    been processed.

Bash Script to Accept Input from Pipe and Process Data
Bash Script to Accept Input from Pipe and Process Data

How to Run the Script

To execute the script and see it in action, follow these simple steps:

 1. Open a terminal window.
 2. Create a new Bash script file, for example, data_processor.sh, and paste the
    script into it.
 3. Make the script executable using the command chmod +x data_processor.sh.
 4. Run the script with piped input, for example: cat input.txt | ./
    data_processor.sh.

Conclusion

Creating a Bash script that accepts input from a pipe is straightforward yet
powerful for automating tasks and processing data. This article has outlined the
foundational steps and provided a basic script to get you started on your scripting
journey.

FAQ

 1. What does the xargs command do?

    The xargs command is used to build and execute command lines from standard
    input, which in this case helps to remove whitespace from strings.

 2. Can I modify the script for different types of data?

    Yes! You can replace the echo "${line}" | xargs part with any command you want
    to use for processing each line of input.

 3. How do I debug the script?

    You can add set -x at the beginning of the script to enable debugging output,
    which shows each command being executed.

 4. Is this script portable?

    The script should work on any system with a Bash shell and the necessary
    permissions to run scripts.

 5. What do I do if the script doesn’t run?

    Ensure that you have made the script executable and that you are providing the
    correct input through piping.

Troubleshooting

Here are some common error messages you might encounter while running the script,
along with their solutions:

  • Permission denied: Make the script executable with chmod +x script_name.sh.
  • Command not found: Ensure you are running the script from a Bash shell and have
    correctly typed the script name.
  • Input is empty: Check that the input data is being piped correctly from the
    previous command.

 

Categories Examples
How to Make a Bash Script Wait for a Command to Finish
How to Open a Terminal and Run a Command Using a Bash Script

BashScript.net

Simplifying Automation, One Script at a Time. Discover real-world Bash examples and
insights to streamline your workflow and master the art of scripting with ease.

Recent Posts

Bash Script to Traverse Directory Tree

Bash Script to Switch Between Name Servers

Bash Script to Remove Last Character from the String

Bash Script to Shutdown Computer

Bash Script to Suspend the System after User Inactivity

Bash Script to Convert JSON to CSV

Bash Script to Extract Enviromental Variables

Bash Script to Convert to Uppercase

Bash Script to Wait 10 Seconds Example

Bash Script to Zip All FIles in Directory

 

© 2025 BashScript.net
Search for:
[                    ]
