It's FOSS

  • 📰 News
  • 📬 Newsletter
  • 🧩 Quizzes & Puzzles
  • 🎒 Resources
  • 🏘️ Community
  • 📖 About
  • -🪪 Contact
  • -📜 Policies

  • Linux Server Side
  • En Español
  • 🗳️ Feedback
  • Impressum

Subscribe
Sign up Sign in

  • 📰 News
  • 📬 Newsletter
  • 🧩 Quizzes & Puzzles
  • 🎒 Resources
  • 🏘️ Community
  • 📖 About
  • -🪪 Contact
  • -📜 Policies

  • Linux Server Side
  • En Español
  • 🗳️ Feedback
  • Impressum

Log in Subscribe

Install and Remove Packages in NixOS

It can be a bit different when installing and removing packages in NixOS. Here, we
explain it to make things easy.

  • Sagar Sharma

Sagar Sharma
11 May 2024 7 min read
 

The packaging system in NixOS is its strongest point. The Nix package manager uses
a vastly different syntax than apt, dnf and other package managers.

It is also one of the reasons why one should try using NixOS.

In this guide, I will share two ways to install and remove packages on NixOS:

  • Using the Nix package manager
  • Using configuration.nix config file

⚠️
Using the Nix package manager, you can only install packages but not services like
SSH or Plex server. For the installation of services, you'd have to use a Nix
configuration file.

To install any package, it is necessary to know its exact name, and for that
purpose, I will start with how you can search for packages in NixOS.

Suggested Read 📖

NixOS Series #2: How to Install NixOS on a Virtual Machine?
Want to try NixOS? Get started by installing it on a virtual machine.
[android-ch]It's FOSSSagar Sharma
[install-ni]

Search packages

To look for packages, you can use its web search using your preferred browser.

You can utilize its web search using the given steps:

 1. Enter the name of the package in the search bar
 2. Select the appropriate package (decide from the given description)
 3. Click on nix-env option
 4. And copy the command for NixOS (first one)

For example, if I want librewolf package, I will perform the following:

searching for package using nix package manager web search
Searching for the required package (Click to expand the image)

You can do the same through the terminal.

To search packages using the terminal, you can follow the given command syntax:

nix-env -qaP --description [package_name]

For example, here, I searched for the librewolf:

search packages in nixos using terminal

You will have to copy the first line of the output as that is the name for the
package you need to install.

For me, it was nixos.librewolf.

Yes, it may not sound as convenient as the package names when using APT or DNF.
But, it is not too bad, I think.

Some compromises for some benefits, I guess?

Suggested Read 📖

How to Install RPM Files on Fedora Linux [Beginner’s Tutorial]
This beginner article explains how to install RPM packages on Fedora and Red Hat
Linux. It also shows you how to remove those RPM packages afterwards. When you
start using Fedora Linux in the Red Hat domain, sooner or later, you’ll come across
.rpm files. Like .exe files in
[android-ch]It's FOSSAbhishek Prakash
[install-RP]

Install a package in NixOS

To install a package, all you have to do is use the following command syntax:

nix-env -iA [package_name]

And if you use the web search to look for the package, you will already have the
exact command you need for the installation.

So let's say I want to install librewolf, so I will be using the following command:

nix-env -iA nixos.librewolf

And if you want to perform a system-wide install (make this package available for
every user), execute the installation command with sudo:

sudo nix-env -iA nixos.librewolf

That's it! You will have your favorite package installed in no time.

Uninstall a Package in NixOS

To remove a package, you can refer to the given command syntax:

nix-env --uninstall [package_name]

So if I have to remove the librewolf package, I have to use the following command:

nix-env --uninstall librewolf

If you notice closely, I have used librewolf instead of nixos.librewolf what I used
for the installation.

This means you will have to skip the nixos part during removal of the package,
which makes things easy and quick.

Install services in NixOS

As I mentioned earlier, you can not use the nix package manager to install services
like OpenSSH, Plex server, Flatpak, etc.

From searching for the service to the installation process, it differs from what
you saw above.

So let me start with how you can search for a service:

 1. To search for the service, head over to the web page for the Nix package
    search.
 2. Select NixOS options (3rd option in the top-menu row of the page).
 3. Enter the name of the service you are looking for.
 4. Copy the name of the service.

For example, here, I'm searching for OpenSSH service:

search for openssh service in NixOS
Searching for a service (Click to enlarge the image)

Once you have the name, open the configuration.nix file using the following
command:

sudo nano /etc/nixos/configuration.nix

And add the name of the service at the end of the line (before }) in the following
manner:

[service_name] = true;

As I want to enable OpenSSH, I will be adding the following:

services.openssh.enable = true;

enable openssh on NixOS

Once you are done adding the service to the config file, save the changes and exit
from the nano text editor.

To enable the service, rebuild the config file and switch to the changes using the
following command:

sudo nixos-rebuild switch

That's it! You have the service enabled.

Uninstall services from NixOS

To uninstall a service, all you have to do is remove or comment out the line for
that service from configuration.nix file.

So first, open the config file using the following command:

sudo nano /etc/nixos/configuration.nix

Look for the service and remove the line or comment it out with #:

remove service from NixOS

With the added comment #, I am ignoring the OpenSSH service to load up as I no
longer want it on my system.

Once done, save the change and exit from the text editor.

And finally, rebuild the config file and make the switch:

sudo nixos-rebuild switch

Install packages using Nix config file

The configuration file lets you easily manage packages in one go.

To install a package using the Nix config file, you have to enter the package's
name in the config file, rebuild, and switch to the config file, and that's it.

First, open the configuration.nix file:

sudo nano /etc/nixos/configuration.nix

If you want to install a package for a specific logged-in user, add the package's
name to the user's profile.

The user profile looks like this:

users.users.sagar = {
    isNormalUser = true;
    description = "Sagar";
    extraGroups = [ "networkmanager" "wheel" ];
    packages = with pkgs; [
      firefox
    ];
  };

Sure, it will show your username instead of sagar.

And you are supposed to add the name of the package using the syntax packages =
with pkgs; [package_name];

So let's suppose I want to install Thunderbird as well, then I will add its name as
shown below:

install a package in NixOS using the Nix config file

You must add all the package names inside the square bracket without commas. It has
to be on a new line as the screenshot describes.

But if you want to install this package system-wide, then you will have to add the
package name under environment.systemPackages like:

environment.systemPackages = with pkgs; [package_name];

install package systemwide in NixOS using Nix configuration file

Once you are done adding the name of the required package in the system profile or
user profile, or even both, you will have to follow the same command to complete
the installation:

sudo nixos-rebuild switch

And you have it!

Remove packages using the Nix config file

To remove the package, all you have to do is follow the given simple steps:

 1. Open the Nix config file
 2. Remove or comment out the name of the package
 3. Rebuild the config and make a switch

So let's start with the first step (opening the config file):

sudo nano /etc/nixos/configuration.nix

Next, comment out the name of the packet from the user profile or system profile:

remove package using nix config file on NixOS

Save changes and exit from the config file.

And finally, rebuild the config and make a switch to remove the package:

sudo nixos-rebuild switch

That's it!

📋
Currently, there are no official GUI tools to help you with installing/removing
packages. You might find some projects like nix-gui and nix42b developed by the
community, but they are no longer maintained or simply in their early stages of
development.

Next Up...

I hope you enjoy reading the NixOS series as much as I do writing it.

In the next part, I highlight some important things you need to do right after
installing NixOS.

NixOS Series #4: Things To Do After Installing NixOS
What do you do right after installing NixOS? Clueless? We got your back.
[android-ch]It's FOSSSagar Sharma
[things-to-]

💬 If you think I'm missing out on something or have any other suggestions, please
let me know in the comments.

NixOS Basics
Share Share Share Share Email Feedback
About the author

Sagar Sharma

Sagar Sharma

A software engineer who loves to write about his experience with Linux. While
reviving my crashed system, you can find me reading literature, manga, or watering
my plants.

Featured

Zimacube review

ZimaCube Review: Almost Perfect Out of Box Homelab Experience in Local Cloud Setup

save the tux

Save The Tux With Linux Command Knowledge Quiz

opencoder LLM

Running Opencoder LLM in VS Code: A Local, Copilot Alternative

Latest

Best Kodi Add ons

Best Kodi Add-ons to Enhance Your Media Server Experience

01 Mar 2025

FOSS Weekly #25.09

FOSS Weekly #25.09: Modern Terminals, RSS Matter, Linux Gaming Tested in 2025 and
More

27 Feb 2025

Modern Linux terminals

7 Linux Terminals From the Future

25 Feb 2025

Become a Better Linux User

With the FOSS Weekly Newsletter, you learn useful Linux tips, discover
applications, explore new distros and stay updated with the latest from Linux world
[                    ] Subscribe
Great! Check your inbox and click the link.
Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again.
Read next

Exploring and Customizing UKUI Desktop in openEuler

Keep openEuler Updated

Setting Up Basic Things After Installing openEuler

Installing openEuler on a Desktop

Getting Started With openEuler

Become a Better Linux User

With the FOSS Weekly Newsletter, you learn useful Linux tips, discover
applications, explore new distros and stay updated with the latest from Linux world

[                    ] Subscribe
Great! Check your inbox and click the link.
Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again.
itsfoss happy penguin

It's FOSS
Making You a Better Linux User
[                    ] Subscribe
Great! Check your inbox and click the link.
Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again.
Navigation

  • 📰 News
  • 📬 Newsletter
  • 🧩 Quizzes & Puzzles
  • 🎒 Resources
  • 🏘️ Community
  • 📖 About
  • -🪪 Contact
  • -📜 Policies

  • Linux Server Side
  • En Español
  • 🗳️ Feedback
  • Impressum

Resources

  • Courses 🎓
  • Distro Resources 📖
  • Guides 📒

Social
Facebook Twitter RSS Download more icon variants from https://tabler-icons.io/i/
brand-instagram Instagram Download more icon variants from https://tabler-icons.io/
i/brand-telegram Telegram Download more icon variants from https://tabler-icons.io/
i/brand-youtube Youtube
©2025 It's FOSS. Hosted on Digital Ocean & Published with Ghost & Rinne.
[System]

Great! You’ve successfully signed up.

Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.

You've successfully subscribed to It's FOSS.

Your link has expired.

Success! Check your email for magic link to sign-in.

Success! Your billing info has been updated.

Your billing was not updated.

Privacy Manager
