P-Pts
Want to watch or play with screens (other than for educational purpuses)?
Want to unlock toys from the attic?
Want desserts?
Pick-points will get you there!  
Pick-points (henceforth referrenced as P-Pts) can be used to buy special priveleges,
reserve blocks of time for special events,
securing priority when picking screen activities,
and more!

Earning P-Pts is as simple as dealing with the natural flow of life:
Getting up on time, getting dressed, having a good breakfast,
and going to school will all earn pickpoints.
So will cleaning up after arts and crafts,
cleaning up after meals, taking the recommended ammount of baths,
and going to bed on time.
Good hygein, self-care, and chores are natural and important psrts of human life.
When we don't practice them, we suffer and so do the people we love.
The more we practice, the easier it gets (to a point).
The harder it is for someone, the harder things are for everyone in the household.
So let's work together to make this a great place to live!!
[brought to you by Trepid_0perations, T_0 (C)2022.]

P-pts Rules:
		***** Currency needs a standard.  1 P-pt will equal:  10 minutes of high-quality screen time.

		*** Values of tasks must be decided.  
		I don't want to pick up paper, footwear, bookbags, or outerwear.
		I really don't want to pick up clothes, blankets, toys, food, or garbage.
		I really don't want to wash clean clothes.
		I don't want to clear the tables.
		I don't want to remind people to take meds.
		I do want to keep track of peoples meds!
		I do want to do dishes.
		I do want to wash, dry, and fold laundry.
		I don't want to put laundry away.
		I do want to prepare meals.
		I do want to process food waste.
		I do want to sweep and mop.
		I do want to wipe down all surfaces.
		I don't want to clean up arts and crafts.
		So what does this mean for ppts?
		
		*** Values of rewards must be decided.
		1 hr of high-quality screen time (educational videos, i-pad video games, insightful programming)
		1 hr of lower quality screen time (most You-Tube videos, console video games, unrealistic programming)	
		desserts and treats (use caution, or don't develop at all)
		1 hr of scheduled time with a parent (requires that parents approval per case)
			this measure could be used for any activity requiring parental guidance,
			including board games, video games, hikes, dates, and other adventures.
		It was previously decided that 1 hr of screen-time would = 6 ppts.
		Since we're shooting for the lowest cost item,
		Let it be that:
			1 hr of high-quality screen time will = 6 ppts.
			1 hr of low-quality screen time will = 12 ppts.
			1 hr of scheduled time with parrent  = 24 ppts.
			1 hr of scheduled time with both     = 36 ppts.
			These are fairly arbitrary variations in value.  Adjust as you go!!
This line is to preserve folding.


		*** Each room must be examined, decisions must be made.
		What tasks will each room require?
		Does each room provide the same potential reward?
			No, Life is the reward, and teh household should provide a standard level of potential reward if possible.
			On the other hand, Life does not always provide equal opportunity.
		When can P-pts be spent?
		When is bed-time?


Windows of Opportunity:
0000-0700
		Bed.
		Basically, kids will be sleeping.  If they want to get up early, they are welcome to.
		DAD:  if you wake up early, roll around and stretch until at least 0700.  Be good to yo'self!
0700-0800 
		Wake up!
		DAD:  
			Get out of bed, guzzle water, guzzle coffee.
			Work:
				Empty the dishwasher, feed Brian, and cook breakfast.

		Kids should be dressed, fed, and prepped for the days activities.
			On school days, kids should be ready to go by 0750.
			On days off, kids should be dressed by 0900.
			One day a week, attempt to afford the kids a PJ day.  Like Sundays!
0800-1430
		School.
		At elementary school, kids go through their day without parental guidance.
		School of Life?
				Go out as a family somewhere at least once a week.
				Bring gobags!

		DAD:
				SCHOOL DAYS:  you get to do chores and whatever!
				Bake.
				Laundry.
				Prep lunches and dinners.
				Clean all dishes.
				Excercise.
				Work:
					a garden, stock options, music, drawing, pizza delivery, path-clearing, foraging, visiting, volunteering, researching...

			  	NONSCHOOL DAYS:  FML.
			  	Get the kids out of the house, go somewhere for gods sake.
				Stay in with planned activities.  A whole nother planner is needed for that!!!
						0800-0900 - Fine, have an hour of screen-time.  Follow priority order.
						0900-1000 - Get out of the house!  Or, begin an activity.
						1000-1100 - 
						1100-1200 - 
						1200-1300 - 
						1300-1430 - 

				Once dry, put away all dishes.
		1410:  Return to Base.
1430-1700
		After-school activities
		Play, do homework, get screen-time.
		Enjoy time scheduled w/ a parent.
		Enjoy life in general.
		Eat a snack.
		DAD:
1700-1900
		Before-bed activities
		Cook, consume, and clean up after dinner.
		Before moving on, house should be cleaned by kids while DAD closes kitchen and dining areas.
1900-2100
		Bed-time routines
		Gummies and meds
		plan for tomorrow
		brush teeth
		take care of bum-bums
		do "bedtime routine" w/ Amelia
		Lay down w/ Nathan
		Chill out w/ Ben
2100-2200
		After-bed parental time
		Watch something, or play something.
2200-0000
		BED.



Kids now each have a laundry basket.
Let it be that dirty clothes no longer live in the bathroom, but in each child's room!
Dirty parents clothes and towels still live in bathroom.


				

How much do I value the following things:
Clean house
Well-fed child
Well-mannerred child
	happy child
	happy wife
	happy self 
	less work
Fewer chores to do - leads to more energy, better mental health, more time to spend with kids



G
