Mon 12 Aug 2024 04:20:32 PM EDT

Remember George Santos?  He was a fabulist, in that he fabricated facts (lied and exagerated) about himself and other people so he could get a seat in Congress.  Under scrutiny, he denied everything with astonished contempt, until the threads connecting him to his fabulations were difinitively traced.  He was not appologetic or admissive when he was rooted out, but said "to hell with these people" while dismissing any guilt (even though he was found factually guilty).

Fabulism can be found everywhere.  It's found in lockeroom jaw, and when discussing fish size.  It's found in the ink of many a resume.  Keyboard warriors (the ones who have succumbed to their addiction to drama and ego) revel in it.  Teenagers can fib.  Parents can gaslight.  Managers can exagerate.  Presidents, with much help, can create webs of lies and false alarms to energize and radicalize their base.

I watched DJT attempt a coup in real-time.  I watched him throw a fit about losing the election.  I heard him say "give 'em hell" instead of "I'm sure this mistake can be corrected, and here's evidence that it needs correction."   What I didn't hear was DJT own up to his role in a well-documented and so-far failed attempt to interupt the transfer of power.  He publically seized at it, and it slipped away from him.  The charges being brought against him are not fabulated, but very real and correspond to actual events (that one might have witnessed if they paid attention and don't trust Fox News).  But DJT hasn't given up.  "Never surrender" is Trump at his most honest.  He's a fighter, a winner, a macho man.

Donald Trump also is, and has been until recently, a successful fabulist.  He was exagerating his assets and sexual exploits well before George Santos was born.  And he has levereged his robust social, economic, and political networks to bolster his now-urgent and fractious fabulations.  He is a gambler who put all his chips down when he refused to accept his election loss.

He had no evidence or reason to believe that he factually lost, but he does know how to sling mud, and America has been getting dirtier and dirtier ever since.  But that doesn't bother him.  He'll stick with his story until the bitter end, and he'll be taking a lot of people down with him.

his hopes finally shrivel with another loss.  Then on his way out, he'll say, as George Santos did, "To hell with these people."

Donald Trump is a floundering fabulist.  He fights hard because he lost, lied about it, and is now playing double-or-nothing.  He will always stick to his story.  That's what successful fabulists do, they stick to their story.

I'm looking forward to voting him out.  I am concerned about the political violence that will come of it

  The dirt-balls that he lobs at his enemies (which are now too numerous to mention) have gunked us all up, and many of us can no longer tell truth from falsehood or enemy from friend.

found in front of the fabulists are content writers, cameramen, and anchors just doing their jobs and sticking to the script.  And hiding behind fabulists are powerful humans who eagerly wish to impliment policies by any means necessary.  This is why a vote for DJT is a vote for abuse by corporations and capitalists.  And a vote for DJT is a vote for fabulism.

But the machines supporting fabulism on the political scale are beyond comprehension.  And tracing their threads requires more than many of us are willing to afford.  




  They've been doing things "their way" whether anybody likes it or not.  He gains praise for it, but in reality he has demonstrated lifelong patterns of egoism and a selfishness that presides as his moral compass.  He relies on blameshifting, exageration, redirection, and fabulation.  He's George Santos on steroids.  He is a gambler who, in 2020, put ALL his chips down.  He wanted to win.  He's a big-time player, and the whole world was watching him lose the election.  He couldn't let go, and many of us watched in real-time as he tried to make his political allies and underlings do crime for him (the rest of us were watching Fox or nothing at all, and missed it).  I saw what he did, and heard what he said, and I wasn't making excuses for him.  And I see how his political allies push lies for him, twist words, turn the heat up with extreme rhetoric.  They have been playing chess with voters against Democrats for a long time, and at this point don't care how they win.  And I am starting to recognize that many of the voters committed to Trump are either in denial that he is a fabulist, or simply don't care because they have been seduced by his conmanship.
