Linnea shared with me today that she believes that my use of cannibis is not due to a medical issue,
but to be considered a coping mechanism.
She thinks this because I've never had need of it before,
that I was fine before.
She's incorrect.
I was not fine before.  I was a stunted, constricted, stupid slave,
unwilling or unable to see beyond the condition prescribed to me.
I rebelled in the mid-2000's, and smoked and ate psylocibin mushrooms
and did other things, and was stupid while doing it.
I was angrily jonesin and addicted and short-sighted and undisciplined
while doing these things at that time.
    I was rebelling against my Christian friends, to whom
I eventually returned.  I turned back to the church and the plastic
forest that I thought was all of existance.  I quit cannabis and coped.
    Cannabis lubricates some of my mechanisms.  I don't want to not have
access to the ease-of-use, freedom, quality of life that I have on
cannabis.  It is not coping anymore than a person with migrains copes by
taking NSAIDs.
    That I've "never needed it before" is a difficult thing to prove.
The complex changes that I've gone through, the growing I've done...
I've changed, and my heart/mind/spirit is dwelling in new places.
It's also dwelling in old places that I sacrificed for the sake of my
religion.  There's barely any precedence, so I can't really honor her
argument.  On top of that, I believe that I HAVE indeed always needed
this, and to deny it me simply because I've limped along thus far is
completely unfair.  I feel this experiment, were it not for the
crippling social facet or the lack of access to the drug, would be a
complete success; I function better when I have access to it, and the
negative side-effects are practically non-existant, especially outside
of the context of, again, the social facet (wherein I must coddle the
delicate expectations of my wife).  In fact, I would say that the only
real downside is that Linnea is unable to cope with my use of the
substances.  I can think of no other lasting restrictions, and I could
talk for days of the relief and aid that I receive from them:  mentally,
emotionally, spiritually.
    It is my goal to, and in fact I'm in the midst of, seeking medical
aid.  I must keep my wife abreast, as we care for each other dearly;
my failure to communicate these things cannot continue.
    But how can I communicate such things to someone who is so against?
I cannot run ahead, but she is not coming with me.  What can I do?
I can make this document the basis of a love-letter to her, wherein I
confess, not only my love, but my need for cannabis and desire to grow
my spirit with the aid of psilocybin.

    When I was a teenager, I would write love-letters to my future wife.
Now that I'm a middle-aged man, I find myself lacking in love; I do not
express love in the form of words, which is always how I used to express
such emotions.  My have I not written you a letter yet?!
    I do love you, so much.  So many facets of my life are complete in
your presence.  You plug into me, you feed my soul; you are my friend,
like no friend I've ever had.  You are uniquely beautiful, and none of the
difficulties we've faced have dimmed that beauty, though they have dimmed
my eyes.  We've grown apart some, and I consider that my failing; I have
not been disciplined or, perhaps, passionate enough to tend our garden.
    I'm actully nervous about letting you see such a letter, as the
thoughts and feelings expressed therein are rarely expressed so overtly,
to the point that it feels like nakedness before a stranger.  It's a shame
I have to admit this.  Will you even care to read through all these late-
blooming, flowery words?
    You and I have been supporting each other for some time now.  We each
bring unique and needed strengths to this partnership, and I regret the
mis-steps that I've taken.  I'm sad that my track record includes long
periods of neglect or ignorance, and I'm glad that I'm working toward
being a more reliable shield-brother.

    --Yours:
      Michael.
