Sadly, it appears my life is devoid of true joy.
Cannabis, though not a solution by any means,
does provide enough manufactured joy that I can function
without moping about in a hopeless depression.
I, unfortunately, do not know of a permanant solution.
a true solution
There's a thousand solutions,
    and a thousand hurdles.
while smoking in tthe morning will put me back on the carousel,
it will at least propel me forward into my day.
I'm too depressed to do much of anything.
I could try yoga, and really probably should,
 since I should do my best to avoid cementing cannnabis use as
a morning crutch.  I fear that my depression this morning is
the new normal.  I could try and brainstorm possible causes for
this depression, and indeed my mind keeps on a desperate search
for the splinter that is causing this maddening painful itch,
but I have little hope that I will find relief.
In fact, I'd rather sit hear suffering with my sanity
than enter into an altered state and dream,
for the solutions that I concoct do not bear fruit,
and nothing resolves.
It does not bring me friends; or space; or opportunity; or
safety; love or commradery; social change; a healthier body;

Green tea brings me nothing.  Yoga helps, when I can do it
(but it's very hard to do it whithout my own dedicated space).
Being outside helps immensely, but it's still too cold.
Typing helps me work things out, but does not bring immediate
relief.

Waking up against my will and coming downstairs just to be
talked at about capitalism DEFINITELY doesn't help.

I don't believe I'm a functioning human today.  I don't know
how to change this.  I actually hate my life.

I'm going to smoke, since it seems to be the only solution to
my current state.  I'm stuck here, otherwise.

on the other hand, I cannot maintinan my
out of spposnoons,only 6:38am

OK, I've smoked (a little of the pick-me-up kind) and now I'm
at least not crushingly depressed.  I took one smallish hit and
one very small hit.  I would not call that a microdose, but it
wasn't much.  How much was I smoking in the mornings before?
More, sometimes.  Other times, it smallish.

It matters, because I made statements about it.  I must dig and
be sure I didn't lie to myself or others.
But I can't, because I didn't keep a log... or did I?
I mean, I was keeping this Personal Log... I could just use
grep and search back for instances of the word "cannabis:w
"
OK, time to get serious about organizing myself.
I mean... If I can get my shit to all function, that'll be a
bunch of hurdles out of my way.
And if I can use to learn the tools at my disposal, how much
b etter off will I be?  A whole bucnh, forever.

I don't even want to try.
I wan't to know what I'm doing first.
Can we make a plan?
Or will I just spray my thoughts into oblivion?
Or will my action into the vboid
?

* find a sphychologist
* start hiking again
* keep yogaing, but how?
    - find some good places to do yoga
* share audio and text and photo using IG, FB, Soundcloud, Fedl
        Fedilab, GDrive, Bandcamp, and perhaps Patreon.
* What about moving?
* What about Linnea getting a job?
* What about just buying properties, land?

I can't keep doing this.
I ...
This existance is going to kill me soon.
This life is tearing us apart.


