Freewriting time!
Sans cannabis, today.  It's nice, actually.  It's good to know
that I can have a normal, healthy morning without cannabis.
I got up a 6:00am and immediately did yoga.  Yoga branched into
meditation.  I was smooth as silk by the time I was done.
I then made tea, ate cereal with almond milk, and prepared some
cheese and fruit for second breakfast (which I will eat later).
I'm ready for work, practically.  I'm just now doing my
freewriting.  I won't have any time for the studio, but that's ok I think.  It's almost 8am now.  In fact, it probably is 8am,
since my system clock on this computer (my dad's old laptop)
seems to be off.  Not sure how that could happen, but oh well.
So, I'll be wrapping up this session and logging into work
soon.  It'd be nice if I had vim set up to handle word-
processing a little better.  It'd also be nice if I had Xmonad
working.  I can't seem to get it to work, like it crashes.
Manjaro is pretty great, but it does come with drawbacks.  It's
great because it's got stable repos (cutting, not bleeding
edge), and it's prebuilt with some proper programs, while still
retaining Arch customizibility.  Downsides are, I have no idea what's on here, and I'm not sure if I could do better myself;
it's a bit bloated, and I'm afraid to tinker cause I don't
want to break it.  If I was using Arch, I wouldn't have to
worry too much about that since I would know what was on it;
also, if I were using Arch, everything would always be broken,
lol.  Lol" means "laughing out loud," in case you didn't
know.  So, here I am, still free-writing.  Kids are thumping
around upstairs.  It's nuts.  I bet I could get pretty good at
learning what
Let's start that sentence over, I don't like it.  OK.
I bet I could learn what's on this computer and begin paring
things down.  I bet I could dive into the configs (which are
likely very well documented) and tinker without breaking
things.  I'm going to get up and log into to work, now.
It's 0804 on fetchboy (this laptop);
It's 0809 on my work computer.
In case you're reading this and it's the future, there was a
giant pandemic in 2020 (I'm sure you already know that).
Because there was a pandemic, I had to work from home from
March 2020 till... at least today.  Almost a year, now.  Crazy.

