I don't want to keep living like this.  Smoking is not a permanent solution.

When was I just about stable and healthy?  The spring and summer and fall of 2020...
Or at least parts of it.  I had microdosed on psilocibin during that time.  I also did much yoga.
I spent a great deal of time outdoors.  I did smoke cannabis, though the patterns were different.
I spent time building things and making music.  I still worked, though I took a long time off.
I don't know what else I did...  I slept outside.  I had human animil experiences that
were unique and hopefull and fullfilling and exciting and.
I felt like a real creature.  Do I feel not like a real creature now?

Save every time you exit insert

I'm writing an email to Justin.
It's about how I want to utilize vim and get wednesdays off.
I'm also trying to mention how much I stink at paystubs.
Paystubs are a distraction, frankly.
I'm feeling the pressure from these old and difficult paystubs,
when all these other issues are actually of a higher priority.
I'd like to focus on doing 40Bs,
I'd even like to knock out Medicare-only paper applications.
I want to continue with appeals, Prisoners, and the Attourney workload.
1372's and w4v's and stuff is fine, too... I'ts just those damn pay stubs.
They really drag me down.
I don't just stink at them, they are causing anxiety.
I cannot seem to tackle them.
When I do, I end up spending a great deal of time on just a few,
and they take a lot out of me.
I could be doing so many other things.
I could be calling people to handle ad hoc or esoteric workloads.
I could be doing that instead of answering the phones....
or instead of paystubs?
I could simply open myself up to more workloads,
but request that my section be removed from me.
I'm having trouble.
Everyone has trouble/
but really, I'm having some serious trouble.


I'm tired of living this way.
I'm tired of it
I'm tired of it.
So tired.

I just want to live in t
I know
I don't know what I want.
But, I think I'm going to find out.
maybe this year.
Maybe going to the woods IS the thing.

