A manifesto of changes that Must Be Made
for the Sanity of All in This Household.

Ping Ganket MUST remain in storage until night-time,
    if she is even ever recovered.
    This must be done nightly
    to prevent manipulation and insomnia.

Meal times are to be strictly observed;
    snacks are to be limited by type and timing.
    The hungry ghosts cannot feed forever.

Toys are to be in their right place, or must be made gone.
    This could be a temporary or permanent departure,
    depending on the frequency and weight of the offence.

Paper and other arts and crafts material must be
    strictly contained; all lose paper will be purged
    at bed-time, and privileges may be impinged for
    continuous offence.

Picks are to be revitilized and reimagined,
    reincorporating forms of media laid aside in ravenous
    preference to the Youtube video and other sugar-bombs.
    Children will be alotted slots limited by media type,
    and may use these slots within specific parameters that
    will be have to be tweaked.

Playtime must be maintained out of doors during fair weather.
    It must be observed during specific hours.  In poor weather
    playtime must be contained and controlled indoors.

Dates must be regularly scheduled and strictly attended,
    per the preference of each child.

Family meetings must be instituted and strictly attended.

Chores are to be assigned and directly associated with
    all prefered privileges.

Behaviours, including cause and effect, are to be
    charted and monitored and used as fodder for lessons.

All interests are to be leveraged jealously against the
    very children that love them.

Freedom is to be an earned priviledge, not a common bond
    for guilty parties to revel in their guilt.
    Freedom is not to be abused as it has been.  It is not for
    leveraging ones own strength (including the strength of
    ones own longing, which can be strong indeed) against
    another individual or the group.



    The freedom alloted to our children, though it has been a
wonderful experiment, is shot through with abuse and neglect.
The house is ablaze with the work that cannot be tended to by
exhausted parents, and the children cannot be made remorseful
by way of natural guilt, so they must made to repent by other
means.  That is, regardless of how each individual may deal
with the negative feelings caused by the breakdown of the
health of the household (which is directly associated with each
childs behavior, which in turn is directly addressed verbally
time and again with warnings and pleadings of all sorts), no
effective changes are generated by the children; so be it then
that specific changes must be decided and enforced by the
parents by way of coercion (not manipulation, which would
undermine a childs ability to discern truth; nor brute force,
except where matters of safety are concerned).  Coercion, not
at all being the prefered method, is "just right" as Goldie-
Locks would put it.  The terms would be quite clear, and if all
regulations are followed, each child would feel like there are
no restrictions at all; stray into the borderlands of what is
acceptable, and feel privaledge shudder upon it's chiseled
pedestal.  Should the child then choose defiance, priviledge
would clatter and even shatter upon the marble floor.  Freedom,
when the sweet smell thereof is so flippantly treated, must be
constricted long enough for the nostrils to flare, and the love
of such sweet air will be reinvigorated; it may even be that
those who long the most for it are caught by the trappings of
their mind, and only an adult, through carefully controlled
coercion, can truely free them.
    Coercion, or really any other form of intervention, is of
course not at all preferable.  What would be preferable is that
each child, realizing how their actions effect the health of
each other member (for good or for bad), would not only feel
remorse or joy (which the children obviously do some of the
time), but would also adjust themselves (by actively banishing
or enlarging the frequency and intensity of whatever deeds) to
suit their own and their fellows good.  Alas, it is not so, for
the parent has no time or effective method for showing each
child the error or good of their ways in the heat of the
moment.  Instead, the parent is exhausted from having to put
out fires that still raging from other heated moments; the
house is constantly ablaze, save for the sweet succor of bed-
time, where the worst heat finally settles as embers kept under
a protective blanket of ash, only to reignite the following
morning.  The fuel of these flames is everywhere: cluttered
rooms and minds; exhausted minds; frivolous, aching, ravenous
hearts; unmanaged, unfed souls.  The true desires of each child
will never be met, for by nature each child sabatoges their own
life so as to deny themselves!  They then turn the frustration
they cause themselves into weapons against those around them,
and thus sabatoge each other.  Regardless of whether or not it
is intended, it is so:  No child is truly "good," because each
child knows not which path leads to good things (trust, love,
peace, joy) and which leads to bad (sadness, frustration, pain,
destruction); because the way is apparently so narrow, it is up
to the parent to ensure success for all, and that path is also
narrow, and also, both apparently and unfortunately, requires
coercion.  Volunteerism is only for those with the knowledge
and fortitude to grasp it; for most of the rest of us, there is
coercion; for those so impoverished in either mind or heart
that even coercion is thwarted, there is either manipulation or
brute force, after which hell is likely to follow.
    To defeat the flames once and for all, the parent is faced
with a choice:  either continue to stamp out the burning woods,
or burn the forest to the ground and start afresh from the
ashes that remain.  When the light in the firefighters eyes
begins to darken and their strength begins to fade, the ability
to chose is lost, after which hell is certain to follow.  For
it is better to, with a sound mind, perform a controlled burn
than to stumble about the flames, smoke in the lungs and sanity
out of sight.  Who will repair if all are consumed?
