The laptop lives in a small, wide cabinet
of poor build quality.  It is mostly MDF.
If I could run Xmonad, I would be able to
make the laptop screen brightly display
different colors to alert me of various
things.  With the way the cabinet is set
up, I could even show one color on the
left and one on the right!  Imagin a display case
that could show 4 or more colors from the laptop.

OK, now listening to the Barr Brothers eponymous.
'bout time I listen to some good music.

I've got an hour's worth of music just recorded
this morning.  It's chock full of stuff...
not sure if I can leverage any of it.
But maybe someone can?
And maybe I can leverage other peoples stuff.
I could subscribe to Patreons, since I do want
to support people who are making music
for a living.

Putting on a live show with supporting musicians
would be amazing.
I want a band.
Right now it's in the studio, and if I can't do that,
I can't do anything.
In a pandemic?  I can't do anything else.
But I do have a band!!
...at least, I could.
I could hire beatnik.wolfgirl, Ianhitsdrums, and others
to play and sing over tunes
that are mixed and mastered by JJ;
arranged with Scott and others;
and written by myself, Kat, Lia Mennaker, Mike Kemp,
and others.
I could take pieces already started by others and
add instrumentation, remix, write over,
and share with the world.

I've decided I want to be Lia Menaker's patron.
So, $50 a month for one lesson a month,
along with lots of access.
She is into collaboration, if not as much as
ianhitsdrums.
$50 per month for a teacher:
musical, spiritual, art and business.
*I must _not_ develope an attitude of mastery*
over those who I give patronage.
It is payment for a service,
it is payment for a goods (if offered).
I am voting with my dollar.

I should come with questions, and she will have questions.
For every question I have for her, I'll ask a question
of myself.
M: What services do I expect to receive?
    One lesson per month, and critique on one peice a month.
L: Would you like to collaborate?
    A:
M: What do I lack?
    Workflow, collaboration, technical skills, ear training
L: What are your specialties or strong suits?
    A:
M: How long before I move on?
    I'll stick around for at least 6 months.
L: Can I build on your work?
    A:
M: What if I get a crush?
    Can't be helped, just be professional.
L: What services would you appreciate from me?
    A:
M: What services would I be offering?
    I'd like to flesh out unfinished biz
    I'd like to provide sample packs, etc.
    This question would not come up immediates,
    but I should be thinking about this.
L: What lessons have you been teaching most recently?
    A:
M: How long have I been playing music?
    Since early middleschool.
L: What are you interested in diving into currently?
    A:
M: What do I want to explore?
    sample creation;
    modern music with starkly ancient roots;
 *   improv song creation;
    beatmaking;
 *   co-writing skills and ettiquette;
 *   editing efficiently;
 *   workflow design

Now that I'm Lia's patron...
I can... work with her, I guess?
But I have my own work to do.
Milkytracker.  Reaper.
Oh!!  I have to start editing music.
How do I start breaking things up?
PASSAGES/SAMPLES?
Beats/Sounds/Samples/Podcast/Private/.etc?
By project?
Bins regardless.
How many subprojects do I want to manage at any given time?
Tabs are bad... I get lost with too many tabs.
Assembling albums, I'd want each song as it's own subproject.
Wouldn't I?
Yes, that would be fine...
Each song would be a collection of .wav tracks,
living and active "version" that I render as I go.
What's left out is lost forever.
It is fire, it is breath.
It must pass away.
But what I render (and raw stem tracks, always)
can be shared with the community, forever.
Different products can be made available thru
different methods, at
different prices (mostly free).

So, what do I have, and what can I do with it?
I don't know what I have, because I've not sorted it.

I could sort those files, but...
It's low priority.
I do want to sort them before my phone completely runs out
of space, but the only reason it's at all urgent.

So, what else could I be doing?
I could be learning Milkytracker, which would
allow me to orchestrate.
Milkytracker would give me quick access to music-making,
getting ideas down quickly,
removing performance from the writing process
(and thus one less hurdle);

frill dragon

M ilkytracker milkytracker milkytracker.
Reaper...



