Another day, another personal log.
I've set this system up in a specific way, but I never truly
learned linux, so It's weird and I doin't have the gumption
anymore to learn
efrgfdtgrrttrrr4tt
Amelia
jumping spider in there
That's his name:  Jumping Spider!
They're crawling out of your beard and into your shirt.
rttygggopdf4ghseseefgv<F6>pwsaazewasednaqs32aw2qa1assqwqww
]
shgtfbhygdrdwewswde3dweqeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
amelia
michael
vyry6hrtyghbhugrtyu9ievdrbuuy6igdvbuynkl;fergtgfy
gtggtecgftvfcgbnmcnk,sazzzzzsdee.cfer35t4fr4fd43r

Single Short Calls (selling a call) have limited income
potential (that is, Return On Investment percentage is low) and
unlimited risk potential (in other words, you could lose it
all).  But, they have a high chance of winning (say, %70)

Single Long Calls (buying a call) have limited risk potential,
and unlimited profit potential!  But, they have a low chance of
winning (say, 30%)

Call Credit Spread has high probability and defined risk; you
sell one call and buy one call.  Credit in this case means that
we're selling a call at a higher price than the long call.  For
instance, we sell a call at $100 and buy a call at $75, giving
us a credit of $25.  In this scenario, we cannot make more than
$25; on the other hand, we also cannot lose more than $75; ROI
is .30 or 30%!  This trade is good for small-account traders
who are concerned with risk and don't mind small payoffs or
slow growth.  Call Credit Spreads assume the stock will remain
neutral or turn slightly bearish (go down).

Iron Condor is a combination Call Credit Spread and Put Credit
Spread.  Butterfly spread is a higher-risk 3-legged spread.

If you can't trade profitably small, you can't trade.

Options Alpha defines "small accounts" as portfolios w/ less
than $25k of equity/cash available for trading (it me!).
1.  Small allocations for each trade (no more than 5% equity)
2.  risk-defined strategies (never naked)
3.  high probability, highest IV trades
4.  building long-term consistency

SMALL ALLOCATIONS FOR EACH TRADE
If I have $10,000 equity to trade, I would want to keep each
trade at $500 or less (5% equity, see point 1. above).

Options beginners should start by targeting 1% trades, but it's
OK to break into the 2% ranged.  Once comfortable with 2%, it's
time to move to 3%.  Once your account is no longer small,
move to 4-5%.  However, it's best to lean away from higher %.
DO NOT MAKE A TRADE that is higher than your account can handle.

RISK-DEFINED STRATEGIES
Credit spreads; Iron Condors; Debit spreads; some calendars.
Control your position size:  Unlimited margin fluctuation can
destroy your portfolio.

HI PROBABILITY, HIGH IV TRADES
"Edge."  Make trades that have a high probability of winning,
targeting stocks that have a high implied volatility.  Go for
the low-hanging fruit, especially at first!

LONG-TERM CONSISTENCY
The 'Law of Large Numbers' states that as a sample size grows
(i.e. # of trades), the mean will get closer and closer to the
value of the whole population.  For example, flipping a coin
gives you a 50% chance of landing on heads.  Let's say you flip
a coin 4 times, but only land on heads once.  That's a 25%
success rate, bad!  But if you keep flipping, that 25% could
turn to 68%, then 42%, then 48%, then 51.5%, closer and closer
to the expected 50% success rate.  If your trade target is to
have a 70% success rate, then by the Law of Large Numbers, the
more you trade, the closer you'll be to having a real 70%
success rate.  That's a win when done over time.

///   HOW TO GENERATE CONSISTENT INCOME TRADING OPTIONS.

Options trading can be both simple and effective.
To be successful with options:
1.  Trade Small Positions
2.  Target Positions that have a High Probability of Success
3.  Trade in Liquid Stocks & Options
4.  Use the Right Strategy
5.  Trade As Many Times As You Can

To win longterm, you gotta do all 5.

LIQUID STOCKS & OPTIONS
The higher a trade's volume (that is, the more trades a
position gets, the more liquid it is; the less a trader loses
in "slippage" (the difference between the bid price and the ask
price, which will be a loss for you when BOTH selling and
buying options!).

USE THE RIGHT STRATEGY
Remember, our "edge" trading options is the ability to
consistently sell high IV setups that historically are
overpriced and give us the widest possible margin for error
while still being able to make money.
As volatility expands, ALL option prices go UP (a good time to
focus on selling options).  As volatility contracts, ALL option
prices go DOWN (a good time to buy).







