Now what?

Is a good today for?
I don't know,.  I did my morning routine
excercise, tea, poop, cereal, shower, smooched Linnea,
dressed, applied tincture, and the dishwasher was already empty.
Now what?
Well, I could...
blah blah blah blah blah bla bla bla bl bl bl blb b b b b b b b
OK, now I'm typing, which is better thaqn nothing
I did yoga, too.  Good times.  My neck needed stretching,
the rest of me ain't great eithwer.  Perhaps I could\/should just get rid of that red line and move on with my life.  Not make things so "easy" for the current me, or whatever,.  It's cold out..,.
windy and crusty and white.
Never break or melt
Things that I don't want to do:
    call anybody.
    check my bank account
    learn how to do options on linux
    o

I'm too tired to work on options.  I just bgathered some bank info, which is cool.

But now what?  I'm not sure what to  do with kmy day?  It's saturday,
kids are watching starwarsfEpVI

I'm feeling kindo poopy.  I'm glad I worked through my morning routine, definitely healthy form me to do that, yup.


I just don't know what to say.
He went upstairs eventually.
Ben ran out of nowhere and attacked Nathan.
Nathan handled it, in the end telling Ben to stop.
Amelia bolstered Nathans call, and Ben got mad,
immediately threatening and insulting her.
Amelia holds strong.
At one point, I ask if Ben is being nice or being mean,
to which Ben admits he is being mean,
but rebuffs, declaring that Amelia was weak.
Ben was very angry at Amelia.
Linnea tells Benjamin he is in an aggressive mood,
and then says "Why don't you go upstairs."
He says no.  She pushes back.
A stand-off ensues.
Linnea deploys the "treat me like a spoke" arguement,
explaining that he hasn't given a response, and
again saying "Why don't you go upstairs."
Benjamin suggests that "the silent treatment"
might be an appropriate response (his suggestion
was delivered politely and seemed genuine).
The stand-off continues for several minutes,
and by which time Benjamin has visibly calmed and
resumed normal play.
Despite this change, Linnea holds her ground,
again repeating "why don't you go upstairs."
Ben responds by increasing intensity of play and breathing.



