Tue 19 Jul 2022 06:59:50 AM EDT
	freewriting.
{{{
	I call it freewriting even when it's tyuping.
I've been doing this on and off for about 15 years now, 
mostly loff of cours.e
	I don't have friends.  How do I know?  I don't reach out to anyone,
and no one reaches out to me.
	If I did have friends, they would be living in my stomach.
Deep inside, they would find the will to carry on.
They would garner strength from the various membranes filling my 
esophagus.  I think I even spenlled that correctly!
So, on to bigger and better things.  Not because I say so,
but because it simply is.
	If anyone is ever reading my free-writin, rememer:
I'm just vomiting words out onto a page.  I'm not 
doing anything else.
	We can go out for iced cream (an easy feat) if we all
clean out butts.  Clean uour butts, and remember, we are the Lactose Intolerant.
It's for the better part of next year that I'll be abraud, cramping
and camping and clapping and crapping.
	Undo hardship is the source of confusion for my autocorrect brain.
AI could do better thanb this broken computer.  Will I take it personally when
the robots take over my freewriting?  Will they publish?
	Don't figure that I'll have more than 4 types of tomates
Tomatoes, potatoes, tornados.
Eat a cucumber, eat an eggplant, eat a carrot.
Eat some celery, it's got -1 calories and will help you have a diet.
	None of this is for future reading.  It's all freewriting.
I'm just makinmg stuff up as I go along.  I've had my coffee.
	Eventually I'll start plainning my day.
I don't care ab0out my mistakes, as is obvious if you read this.
The whole point is to freewrite.  Should I save this?  I will save this.  Why not?
Byt why?
Mistakes.  I can sense that I'm making a multitude of them.  I'm 
typing with my eyes closed, and feel my hands hitting keys that are adjacent to the correct keys that 
I'm actually aming for.  I would like it if vim would auto line down in word mode.
Or, maybe I should use wordgrinder?
Wordgrinder would be awesome, but .txt and vim...   You know?  
Keep it simple, stupid.  I don't need one more reason to poop my pants
each morning.  I poop my pants, then rub it on the ceiling fan.
Burn the tomatoe patch down.
Struggle to breathe underground.
Finally sleeping so sound.
Salivating all around.
Silly songs keep me from drowning.
may my moe me mort-mort.
Silly slongs. shongs.
SHLONGS.
There, I said it.  Wrote it.  Typed it, actually.
I thinki I will stop typing soon, as I'm getting brain-tired.
}}}
Tue 19 Jul 2022 07:11:41 AM EDT
	Daily planning.
{{{
	What's the plan for today?
So far, I've hydrate, ate something, had coffee, 
stretched, jogged, partook an edible, showered.
Not at all in that order.
	I must feed the sourdough starter (Brian).
	I must... well, what else must I do?
Kids need out of the house;.
Where to take them?
My DL is expired.
	I do not like being a single parent.
	I'm not a single parent.
	I'm lonely staying home with these kids.
What will we do today?
Nathan will hate walking...
We could visit the zoo.
	w/ mom?  She gets out at 2...
	Lets's go w/out her.
}}}
Tue 19 Jul 2022 07:47:12 AM EDT
	Music and songwriting advice.
{{{
	So, Ben Levin wrote a blog entry comparing infinite small talks to
starting and not finishing writing songs.  He suggests "practicing focus"
daily, which will grow the mental muscle to get through the toughest
parts of songwriting slogs.  But, he also suggests this solution:
	When you had a good writing session and a song is 2/3 done,
and the song parts are good to listen to and make you proud,
It's easy to become gunshy when trying to finish, and the project gets abandoned.  Sound familiar?
Well, Ben suggests writing new ideas in a fresh writing session,
then bouncing the two ideas off each other and molding them into one piece.
See what happens!  I mean, how many song parts do I have, fr rl?
}}}
Tue 19 Jul 2022 12:36:20 PM EDT
	Child Rearing.
{{{
	Benjamin's bullying must be addressed.
His erratic mood means that, at any moment, he might:
assault; harrass; intimidate; steal or play keep-away; invade personal and/or private spaces;
and find ways in general to terrorize, humiliate, or otherwise harm his siblings.
	The bullying is sometimes ignored, or not addressed appropriately.
Bullying must be addressed at every turn.
When Benjamin yells at his siblings, even if it's justified,
he must be addressed.  If he cries "freedom of speech,"
he can do art.  He can write a nasty letter,
but will be punished if he delivers it.
	Nathan is suffering, and will suffer the effects of this traumatic time in his life.
I can tell Ben this, but he doesn't care when he's like this.
He hates everything, sometimes including himself.  Point is, telling him is only a small part of the solution.
	We must affirm that each human is beautiful.
}}}
	Demarit system for bullying.  Brainstorm.
{{{
If Benjamin bullies, he gets a demarit.
He must work off demarits.
If he has 5 or more demarits,
He cannot go on special trips.
That means no: zoo; scallywags; waldemeer; family trips.
One way to work off demarit is to wait:  Each week, one demarit drops.
He can receive one demarit a day.
That means, if he's abusive all week, he could get 7 demarits!!
If he's good all next week, he's down to 6 demarits.  Ouch.
Once a day, he can give his pick to his siblings (split each way)
which earns him -1 demarit for that day.
So, if he trades his pick away each day, he could earn -7 demarits!  Neat!
Priviledges that could be lost:
leaving room. (Extreme!)
leaving house. (overarching)
going on field trips
going to restaurants (once a week, how bout)
	but wait.  This can't work, because I'm only one person.
	So, I'll have to coordinate with others.
	No more dates with just me and the kids,
	Lets get a list of ladies to take out!
	And this list should include only ladies that would be willing to babysit Ben (or whomever) at home.
}}}
	List of Ladies
{{{
	Christina
	Mandi
	Kaela
	Amanda (w/ Tristin)
	Jason (w/ Arie)
	Mom and Dad
	Amy Miles
	Doc/Tim
	
	
	

}}}
Tue 19 Jul 2022 12:53:59 PM EDT
	Marits/Demarits Continued...
{{{
0 merits
-1 M (or one demarit):  
}}}
Tue 19 Jul 2022 01:02:49 PM EDT
To work off a demarit, he could: 
	trade away a days pick, see above.

Bullying is too much.  No one in our house should be bullying,
Least of all me.  So, I must also earn a demarit if I demonstrate:
Assault (physical w/ intent to cause pain)
	

according to stopbullying.gov, bullying is any aggressive behavior that also includes:
	Imbalance of power - kids use their access to power, be it physical strength,
		access to embarrassing info, or popularity - to control or harm others.
		Power imballances can shift over time.
	Repetition.

Types of Abuse:
	Verbal
		Teasing
		Name-calling
		Inappropriate sexual comments
		Taunting
		Threatening to cause harm
	Social bullying
		Leaving someone out on purpose
		Telling other children not to be friends with someone
		Spreading rumors
		Embarassing someone in public
	Physical bullying
		Hitting/kicking/pinching/ etc.
		Spitting
		Tripping/pushing
		Taking/Breaking someones things
		Making mean or rude hand gestures
		Other threatening body language


What if we can't help it?  Examples:
	What if I'm too rich to help it?  It's still bullying, even if you don't perceive it.
	What if I'm too angry to help it?  It's still bullying, even if you're drowning in passion.
	
	
