K, starting fresh.  This pl thing is almost a good idea.

clean out room in attic
move toys and drums to attic
    return and give away toys
    set up and sell drums
clean out basement
    move electronics to table
    move tools to boxes
    move hardware to select location
    move jars to kitchen for processing

Decide what a household of 7 would need in an emergency.
    gather all those things into a select location.  Musicroom?
Decide what a household of 7 would need to live longterm.
    gather all those things into a select location.  Attic?

Get ahold of finances
    get (and stay) caught up with bank statements & checkbook
    learn to use thinkorswim software w/ linux
    continue paper trades

Get a new dwelling
    decide on land
        Perry Highway is really my only option.
    design
        Think small.  Like a summer home for 5-7.
        maybe multiple buldings?
    build
        materials?

Get connected.
    Contact Debbie Agardi, homestaeding
    Chat with Bells, homesteading, zero waste

Execute?
    Sell house, invest most into options.
    Live 3-season on Perry Highway;
    travel for winter?
    invest into Crystal and Daniel or whomever
      to create a stable community.

Until then, lots of work, see above.

Tasks needing completion:
 XXXXX Rise [No need.  Going on tincture only.]
 *** bring bank statement to current
 *** bring bank statement back through beginning of 4th qtr '21
 *** taxes
 ***

220128 Friday:
    Love family
    Taxes?
220129 Saturday:
    XXXXX Overtime? [taxes will bring more money.]
    Taxes.


220130 Sunday:
220131 Monday:
    ***
*** walk into Izbiki's
    *** have them fax a letter to 833.950-3176
      * John Izbiki or practice: "We have received FMLA forms"
      * signed, dated, on letterhead

If put in a situation where there is
something that Benjamin wants, and
there is nothing stopping him,
Benjamin will take advantage of the situation

Benamin, like many children, has simple desires:
 * watch and re-watch gifs of Poppy Playtime
 * pretending to be Santa Claus
 * doodling
 * binge-watch Youtube videos
 * play video games
 * have snowball fights

Benjamin is not often able to deal with daily challenges.
When faced with situations that aren't "fun," Benjamin
exhibits defiant mania, sullen moodiness & intense violence.
The period of time of each episode ranges from several seconds
to several days at a time,
though usually lasting several minutes and
often stretching into hours.
Attempts to console or redirect him usually end in frustration
for all parties, including bystanders.

When Benjamin is not experiencing these intense emotions
he spends most of his time pleasure-seeking, engaging in
video games or screen-time, eating sweet foods, talking about
things that he desires (while ignoring any input from others),
and acting out events from videos.  Of course, most of
these behaviors are normal and even healthy in the right doses.
Unfortunately, Benjamin's appetite for these things is so
insatiable that if the chain of pleasure is interrupted,
Benjamin will become sad or angry.  If his emotional
reserves are low (as they often are), he becomes unable to
control his emotions, expressing them in ways that are
inappropriate such as name-calling, punching, loud and
insistant wailing and yelling, and the like.  This makes
completing basic tasks such as homework or getting along with
siblings extremely difficult for him.

When attempting to get along with siblings or parents,
Benjamin often refuses any terms that don't outright give
him advantage, yelling "it's not fair!"  If asked for more
details, or if an attempt is made to discuss the situation
or define fairness, Benjamin only get's more upset.  If asked
to come up with new terms, Benjamin simply digs in his heels.
If Benjamin discovers or develops new desires (or when he
remembers any previous desires that remained unmet), these add
to and exsaserbate his negative emotions.
In the heat of these moments, he sometimes declares that he does
not care about the feelings of others, or about following
rules, or about solving any issue at hand
other than his own gratification (which usually must be done
exactly to his liking if he is to be satisfied.)
All these elements can and often do compound to make any
situation extremely difficult for him and his family.

When Benjamin is prompted to explain his inability to
handle whatever situation may be at hand, his response is often
"I just want to have fun."  Though this answer spans
many different scenarios, it seems quite genuine and even accurate.
Benjamin appears to be deficient in "fun," and cannot function
without it.  He has great difficulty focusing on homework
(and he sometimes tries very hard, especially when promised
rewards such as screen time).

In moments of quiet clarity, Benjamin expresses his desire to
address the issues of his life.  He says things like "I just
want to have fun, and that's the problem," before weeping.
He expresses concerns that he "became evil" since turning
8-years-old, though he has always demonstrated these tendencies
to some degree.  Benjamin receives a great deal of attention
at home and sees a therapist weekly.

Although he can recall and express his understanding of the
world around him, Benjamin has trouble navigating day-to-day
life.  He faces daily challenges in his own mind that prevent
him from enjoying his life in a healthy way.  He now almost
exlusively resorts to binging, pleasure-seeking, and choosing
imagination over reality to cope with daily challenges that
are typical to other children his age.



Benjamin has expressed sadness that he now hates his
younger brother and sister.  Although he says this, he often
will opt to play with them, and if he's not enjoying himself
after a time, has learned to politely excuse himself.

Benjamin actively holds grudges.  He prefers to remember
instances where his negative emotions stem from the behavior of
his parents or siblings, and openly talks as he plots revenge,
often in a menacing voice.

