freetyping, freewriting, freewill, freedom, freefallin', freebird, filddlesticks, filter, falacy,
I'm here just typing away, trying to unlock  my sweet sweet words, my feeling,s, my butt.
I have nothinhg to say at this point, I'm just excercising my brain.
My word brain, my enlish brain, my typing brain.
Every brain that's in my head, wich si one brain.
one whole brain, good times in my brain today.
I keep saying the same words, but that's ok, it's just free-writing.
Free-typing?  Excercising that muscle.
I excercised today.  Did some stretches and yoga, just a little.
Most important is the excercise, because it's been awhile.
I am getting soft, getting weak, getting hurt.
Dad?  Can I get my pick?  Can I play video games?
No, you  may not.  It is too early.
Play the piano, Chelsea.  It's a good time.
Please don'[t break the guitar, Emma.
Please don't use squirt guns in the house.
Eating brains is ithe new black.  I don'ty really feel like free-typing anymore.
I'm not fit.  I am soft.  I am weak.  I must continue excercising if I'm to remain effective as a human, right??
I'm not sure.  But it does make sense that continuing to practice things will enble me to be better at them.
So, if I go and use my stuff, I'll get more used ot it, having more to work on for next time.
Some peoples children.
Anyhow, I don't take the time to write, and I feel guilty about it.
Do I?  Not exactly.  I do feel like I SHOULD be writing more, 
now that I'm doing it.  Because I rarely do it.
Because there are other things to do,
like laundry and dishes and cooking and cleaning;
like spending time with my kids and wife;
like playing in bands and gardening and tending to my gear.
There are things that I could be doing.
Linux seems unimportant. 
Learning, practicing, seems unimportant.
The only important things are what I've already mentioned, 
because it has to do with daily life, survival, and mental health of others.
I don't feel guilty or conflicted about tending to those things,
so tend to them I will, even if I'm super grumpy about it.
Even if I know something is good for me,
if it's just for me, I have trouble doing it.

So, I've got Chelsea and Emma, and I also have Amelia and Nathan and Ben.
That's 6 people total, too many for the van.
If Ben and Nathan insist on comoing, we have to walk.
We're going to walk around, maybe stop for iced cream?
That's a lot, though.
Maybe we could walk to a playground?
Nah, I don't know if that's a good idea.
Chelsea is something else/.

plus, video games.  I don't play video games anymore because it seems like a waste of time.
Is it?  How do I value my time?  I'm not sure.

9am, and all is well.
Gonna get Chelsea and Emma back to their house, and Amelia is coming with them.
that'll leave me with two kids.
that's not so bad.
I need more coffee.
I can't take all kids in the van.
Ben doesn't want ot be left home, because he's expecting fun.
OK, so Ben might be ok staying home if he can get his pick.
Nathan could stay too.
The girls and I will...
I need a third car seat.
We could also walk.
If I leave at 
Where will we walk?

T:  "Do you know what the Titanic is?"
A:  "Uhh... Is it from the 90's?"

Holy crap, I'm looking forward to not having people in my house.
Except Kaela and Silo, who are both wonderful and don't stress me out constantly like Emma and Chelsea.
OK, constant stress is an exaggeration.  Im' not really sure what I'nm trying to say.

T bloviates.

