Natural cat-litter solution possibilities:
	clay, sand (but this could be dusty)
	sawdust, preferably pine for oder control
	dried and powdered grass clippings
	shredded and rinsed paper pulp, with baking soda added
	baking soda, to eliminate oders

	
does it still throqw the error?
Id toes not!

Damn, I cannot function today.
Just trying to stay fed and hydrated...

Kitchen has a lot of mason jars, standard sized lid, small-ish jar.
These jars could be used for selling products, gifts, storing products.  Storing products like mulberry "raisons" is the goal.


Gear.
I don't go on hikes much, but when I do,
I don't need much gear.
 Just a knife, food, water, clothes, and perhaps shelter if I'm staying out.
But I don't do that much, I I don't NEED to do that, I don't think.
So what do I need/want to do actually??
Well, I'll be going cobbing.  Also, I go to peopeles houses and dig gardens.
And weed, and collect things off the side of the road.
So, I operate out of my vehicle.
Thus, I could make the vehicle the home base
and build kit out of that.
I cannot, with my current skills and gear and lifestyle,
Be a lone-wolf prepper/mountain-man.
I don't WANT to either.
I want to bring my family with me.
Including Linnea!
Including Ben!
Including Nathan!
Including Amelia!
Including Kaela and Silo, but how?!

Since I'll be operating out of a vehicle,
I can configure things accordingly.
However, I'm still operating out of my house,
and cannot neglect operations there.

so, if I'm driving somewhere, what do I ALWAYS want in the car/van/whatever?
	food - dry or sealed, should be enough for 1-2 days, should be high in calories and nutrition, shouldn't be boring or too yucky.  Variety!
	water - to avoid buying bottled watter, use type-2 plastic containers and prep for long-term storage using water-pure tablets.
			If tablets are not available, long-term storage is not possible.
			In that case, develop system of rotation, restocking, and proper drying and storing of excess bottles.  Hygeine!!!
	meds - 'nough said.
	footwear - sandles will do.
	masks/bandanas
	toilet paper and digging utensil(s).
	toiletries - Towel, toothpick w/ baking soda and vinegar.
	blanket(s).
	knife.

But what if I want to work?
	Wool hat (with the brim)
	boots, clean socks
	pants, shirt
	knife, saw, e-tool
	cordage
	


These things should be in a go-bag that is maintained on the daily.


What about fam?  Gotta have the right stuff for everyone:
	clothes - Keeping a bag of one outfit for each person, along with a couple pairs of socks per.
	toiletries - towels, toothpaste, toothbrushes, tiny soap...  other stuff for family?  Not sure.
	
	
P-Pts
Want to watch or play with screens (other than for educational purpuses)?
Want to unlock toys from the attic?
Want desserts?
Pick-points will get you there!  
Pick-points (henceforth referrenced as P-Pts) can be used to buy special priveleges,
reserve blocks of time for special events,
securing priority when picking screen activities,
and more!

Earning P-Pts is as simple as dealing with the natural flow of life:
Getting up on time, getting dressed, having a good breakfast,
and going to school will all earn pickpoints.
So will cleaning up after arts and crafts,
cleaning up after meals, taking the recommended ammount of baths,
and going to bed on time.
Good hygein, self-care, and chores are natural and important psrts of human life.
When we don't practice them, we suffer and so do the people we love.
The more we practice, the easier it gets (to a point).
The harder it is for someone, the harder things are for everyone in the household.
So let's work together to make this a great place to live!!
[brought to you by Trepid_0perations, T_0 (C)2022.]

P-pts Rules:
		*** Currency needs a standard.  1 P-pt will equal what? 
		a treat?
		one hour of video games?
		10 minutes of educational video?
		one ho-ho?
		one fig cookie?
		one hug?  one smile?
		So that needs to happen

		*** Values of tasks must be decided.  
		I don't want to pick up paper, clothes, footwear, bookbags, or outerwear.
		I really don't want to pick up blankets, toys, food, or garbage.
		I really don't want to wash clean clothes.
		I don't want to clear the tables.
		I don't want to remind people to take meds.
		I do want to keep track of peoples meds!
		I do want to do dishes.
		I do want to wash, dry, and fold laundry.
		I don't want to put laundry away.
		I do want to prepare meals.
		I do want to process food waste.
		I do want to sweep and mop.
		I do want to wipe down all surfaces.
		
		*** Values of rewards must be decided.
		1 hr of high-quality screen time (educational videos, i-pad video games, insightful programming)
		1 hr of lower quality screen time (most You-Tube videos, console video games, unrealistic programming)	
		desserts and treats (use caution, or don't develop at all)
		1 hr of scheduled time with a parent (requires that parents approval per case)
			this measure could be used for any activity requiring parental guidance,
			including board games, video games, hikes, dates, and other adventures.

		*** Each room must be examined, decisions must be made.
		What tasks will each room require?
		Does each room provide the same potential reward?
		No, Life is the reward, and teh household should provide a standard level of potential reward if possible.
		On the other hand, Life does not always provide equal opportunity.

				

How much do I value the following things:
Clean house
Well-fed child
Well-mannerred child
	happy child
	happy wife
	happy self 
	less work
Fewer chores to do - leads to more energy, better mental health, more time to spend with kids



G
