Fri 29 Jul 2022 01:46:07 PM EDT
	Lyrics.
{{{
	I'm not good at living
	I'm sorry to say
	I love the gift,
	but I can't bear it's weight
	and all of the suffering
	of which we partake
	is half the point of it all
	and that's ok, I guess,
but really
		How many human beings see the light of day
		churchyards hold just a fraction of them
			the history of death
	The time we swallowed the red pill
	The koolaid down, koolaid down
	Harbinger of despair is coming
	The earth is gonna spit us out
	even if your in the world not of it
	all our stuff's gonna be that dust real soon
	

There's something somewhere deep inside that I can't seem find
	too good at hiding from myself
Don't say it's Jesus, because His stuff has long since been dust
Think again, if half the book is lying, men of God, and gods
Crossed the lines between church and state,
Philistine and sublime literature combined!
		How many human beings see the light
		churchyards hold just a fraction of
Stop the press, the pages thinner than papyrus
saves the taxman sweat, give some to the archangel Gideon
Is this a test?  Will you capture all my conciousness?
And what then?  Hell is full of those who meant the best,
	so what about me, huh?
		How many human beings saw the light
		churchyards hold just a fraction of them
Dice got rolled, I choose the role of bard/ranger/monk.
And I'm only level 12
I got stopped and shelved so many times, by myself and others
I think I'll play again.  So to my friends, and you are few,
I'll try to be a one worth being around.  
So lets sound off the creed!
			The things that I use daily, i'll keep near and light
			The things that I would love to use must steal into the night
			The people that are near to me would love to see me smile,
			The people far might like to hear from me every once in awhile
			The hope I long for should be given best I can
			The fear I live with won't forever surrender to the sand
			All the love I lost was all my fault, or at least it's on my chest
			All the trust I broke, couldn't stop from saying 'yes.'
			But I'm not a loss myself, no I still can rise
			Big problems get big notice, could be a big surprise
				
}}}
Fri 29 Jul 2022 02:24:57 PM EDT
	On quitting cannabis.
{{{
	Why do I want to stop taking cannabis?
Because it:
	becomes a go-to method for managing emotional distress
	causes problems in my relationships
	affects my mood, memory and concentration
	reduces my interest in hobbies
	becomes something to do instead of a treatment of symptoms
	decreases energy for self-care

		I want to take the strain out of relationships:
			Cannabis causes some unwanted side effects, including paranoia and something akin to psychosis.
			This affects my brain, which affects my relationships.  This is a common side effect in me.
		I want to be able to live more consistently:
			Side effects sometimes inhibit my ability to plan, socialize, think, maintain hygein, etc.
			To be fair, it often enables me to do those things!  However, if I can effectively replace weed with
consistant excercise
consistant diet 
weekly meal planning
consistant dosing
tracking of things, maybe
Having other humans in my meatspace
accomplishing personal goals
consistant meditation


	
replace cannabis use in the daily schedule, perhaps w/ meditation, biking/walking, music (improvising to instrumental bits/beats)
Identify the hobbies that you enjoy.
Choose a quit date (say, two weeks out from when you pull the trigger on this)
Taper off gradually
Plan activities for family for whole day (keep busy, keep the kids truly entertained and satisfied, and build in rest times that work)
Stay busy, get lots of outdoor alone time.
Understand triggers:
	seeing friends I used to smoke with (bands)
	trouble sleeping
	grumpy in the morning, after a lothesome night
Try coming up with a list to combat these and other triggers.
Handling W/drawels:
	trouble sleeping
	anxiety
	aggression
	irritability
	depression
	headaches
	fever, chills, sweats
	low appetite
	cravings (jonesin')
Healthcare experts recommend:
	drinking less caffeine to improve sleep (and decrease anxiety)
	using deep breating and other relaxation methods to address anxiety
	HYDRATE!!
Get therepy.  Fo riz

To be real, I don't really plan on dropping it entirely.  But I do plan on quitting... what?  All daily use?
Use includes:
	4 ml of 1:1 Harlequin or High-TCH Green Line.
	Today, I smoked too!  This caused problems.

}}}	
Fri 29 Jul 2022 08:17:16 PM EDT
	On Bedtime, roles, etc.
{{{
	stuff needing doing:
sweep, mop, clean off table, mop table, sweep and mop counters;
clean out fridge, clean out drains, clean bathroom
Put Amelia to bed, moniter Benjamin, 
	Things needing doing
Eat breakfast
eat lunch
eat dinner

Breakfast
	
fuck this.

}}}
