
You talked a little about how you went to churches. Are you still a Christian, or not really?Thu 11 Jul 2024 10:19:07 AM EDT


**********
Thu 11 Jul 2024 10:19:15 AM EDT

TLDR: Faith is simple, until you realize the wide variety of faiths that exist.  They can't all be true.  Here is my witness.

When I was an adolescent, I had a wonderful experience in a Methodist weekend retreat for kids.  Me and two of my best friends knelt in the front of a church and "gave our lives to Christ."  We were tearful together, though none of us really could put a finger on what we were experiencing.  My life did not change very much.  I still struggled with school, family, loneliness, listlessness.  Fast forward a year or two, and I faced the most excruciating experience of my young life:  head-over-heals infatuation with a girl (sorry, Jess.  I know it was awkward).  Typical story: I really liked her, she just wasn't into me.  I tried to ignore it, get over it, distract myself from it, but I couldn't.  My bland relationship with God became a raging inferno of resentment.  I screamed at God, asked him "why" so many times.  I got no response but peace, like a gentle father in the drivers seat with his baby boy screaming in the back.  It took two years before my heart finally let go of the girl, and during those two years I leaned very heavily into church and my christian friends.  I clutched onto my newly galvanized Christianity.  I began to carry a NIV Bible openly around school (a social challenge suggested by Denton Mathias, if I recall correctly).  I was involved in Bible studies, weekend retreats, wednesday night services, I couldn't get enough.  I began serving in multiple churches.  I loved the feeling I got when I couldn't understand life, but that was OK because God was in control.  I LOVED that feeling, couldn't get enough.  I noticed that some folks struggled with faith, and I felt sorry for them.  I felt bad that the devil was able to distract them from what could be an outstanding relationship with an all-powerful being, and the bliss that accompanied it.  I had my own doubts, of course, and I wanted to help fix everyone elses doubts too, which led to a long-term relationship with the Bible.  I studied by myself some, but it was much easier to study with others.  So many people seemed to get so much out of the Bible!  It was amazing hearing stories of how people were met with answers to their doubts, sometimes in "miraculous" ways.  You know, when God shows up with an answer that absolutely confirms or up-ends a belief, usually in a shocking or humbling way.  I had these own experiences from time to time, but it always seemed like something I only heard in stories (usually in sermons recounting second hand experiences).  I found myself developing a set of beliefs, only to have to re-evaluate those beliefs with new information.  I had questions that received different answers depending on which Bible-believer I asked.  The Nazerenes and Methodists seemed to have a completely different faith experience than the Assemblies of God folks, or the Evangelical Free folks.  They had different interpretations of the same source material (the Bible).  Similar to my infatuation with the girl-next-door, I was unable to look away from the discrepencies that niggled their way into my mind.  If the Assemblies of God Christians spoke in tongues, why did the Nazerene folk seem to believe this was not a true sign from God?  Why did the Nazerene and Methodist folks blandly rely solely on a Book when there was a living God giving new information every Sunday just 10 miles down the road?  To be a Christian began to mean different things, depending on who I was spending time with, and the faiths held by my friends became incongruent with one another.  I was hurt and angry that there was multiple denominations (obviously the work of the devil, since there was only one truth, in Christ alone).  I wished that Jesus would show up at Bible studies and dispell the discrepencies between faiths, but that's not what would happen.  I frequently found myself at events where we would invite the Holy Spirit through prayer, and we would either discuss or be taught beliefs derived from the Bible.  The Spirit was there in theory (where two or more are gathered), and some mystical conversations and experiences were shared.  The unifying element was often a belief in a resurected Jesus, yet the Spirit seemed to be confirming different beliefs depending on who was facilitating the events.  It was almost as if the Spirit wasn't speaking so much as people were speaking.  It was almost as if the Bible was a collection of books written by different people for different reasons over the course of centuries and compiled by humans.

I was recently asked if I am still a Christian.  The answer?  Depends on who is asking.  Let's get into it!

First, how does one become a Christian?  Some folk believe that everyone is a Christian, they just don't know it yet.  Other folk believe you're only a Christian if you say the sinners prayer.  Still others believe it requires water baptism in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.  Still others believe it requires publically proclaiming belief in a risen Jesus of Nazereth.  Some think it's as simple as unlocking the door of your heart when Jesus knocks.  Some think it requires unwaivering belief in a literal Bible.  Others think salvation can only be confirmed through miracles such as healings and speaking in tongues.  The shocking bit is: all of these beliefs are at least somewhat biblically based, and I haven't even mentioned the Church of Latter-day Saints, whose faith is derived from the Bible plus the Book of Mormon.  I also haven't mentioned Christian Science, or Jehovah's Witnesses, or the many major  differences between Protestantism and Catholocism.  One could argue that you can be a Christian without being aware of other faiths.  Isn't that how faith works, "You know that you know that you know?"  Problem is, lots of people know that they know that they know, but they don't all know the same stuff.

So which stuff is the right stuff?  Can it be found in the King James Version of the Bible (strictly excluding the dubious Apocrypha, of course)?  How about the Mormon-issued Bible plus the Book of Mormon?  Does "the right stuff" include the most recent issue of the Watchtower?  Or must it include a weekly sermon given by your own Spirit-led pastor?  Must we learn Latin, Greek, and Aramaic, grab our concordance and Halley's Handbook, and get into the nitty gritty in order to reveal the truth that God laid out for us?  Perhaps the right stuff includes other holy Scriptures such as the Bhagavadgita or the Quran?  Or perhaps we must narrow our search for truth and exclude all but the Pentatuch and the Prophets?  It all depends on who you ask.

But what about faith?  Surely God will reveal his one truth to any who would faithfully ask of him?  So think many Christians, and they feel affirmed by their experiences.  Yet so think many Mormons, who also feel affirmed by their experiences with the Book of Mormon.  Muslims have faith in the perfection of the Quaran, and not without reason.  Jews have faithfully studied the Torah, Psalms, and Talmud for many centuries.  Many faithful believers, all using different texts, yet their mission is the same: to experience God through faith.  They each believe they are having these experiences, yet these faiths conflict with one-another.  So which faith is the correct faith?  Each faith-holder will present their own faith in answer, which only brings us back to the question "which stuff is the right stuff?"

"So, are you still a Christian, or not really?"  Well, who's asking?  Is it the Catholic, who believes in the power of the sacrements and the need for ongoing confession?  Is it the Nazerene who believes in the requirement to attain Entire Sanctification while on earth?  Is it the rasta, the episcopalian, the Messianic jew, the amish man?  All might require different answers in order to feel joy in my condition.

And so, I do not hold myself to any religion but this:  "Love thy neighbor as thyself."  And if I say I "love the Lord my God with all my heart, soul, and mind," understand that it is not the command in the Bible that I obey, but the command in my heart.  For I have spent decades studying and watching others study the Bible, and I find that any good that comes from it is hobbled by the difficulties generated by such studies.  Honesty, love, and peace are much more easily accessed and shared without scripture of any kind.  I can't know if there was a Jesus that died and rose again; I can't know if sin is anything more than people turning away from truth and love to follow whatever faith or desire that has ensnared them.  I do not put my faith in the Bible, for it is a book written by the hands of men, boldy grasped and sworn upon by men and women, both good and evil.  It has no power but as a tool, and a questionable one at that.

You now have your answer as to whether or not I am a Christian.  Either I am because I strive to live simply and love others, or I am not because I shine a questioning light upon all faiths and scriptures.


"So, are you still a Christian, or not really?"  This question comes from someone concerned about the soul of another; someone who believes, perhaps, any number of things about what it means to be be a Christian or not be a Christian.  We cannot know unless we ask, and although I could ask and assume things about other peoples faiths in order to interpret and answer their questions specifically, I will instead say this:

I will never claim to be a Christian.  I 

I have seen that many who claim to have faith in Jesus are the same ones who do evil in the world, and this fact flies in the face of biblical clai

, for I know now that even this one word, "Christian," bears a wide range of meaning worldwide, and I do not identify with much of what people think Christians are.  

 someone who likely trusts the Bible but not the Book of Mormon or the Apocrypha.

It's easy for those who were all brought up with the same books and beliefs to discuss their shared faith, since they share specialized language and a small range of experiences.

How can I call myself a Christian if I'm skeptical of the existance of Jesus, or the legitimacy of the Bible?

If being a Christian means claiming that Jesus was born of a virgin, died and rose again, for the sake of my sin and the sin of the world

I've never heard a non-Christian ask about faith in Jesus, but 

Although the question "Are you a Christian" seems simple, in light of the variety of faiths, it is not a simple one to answer, but it'll help if we can define it's limits and intents.

With all that said, which faith is true?  Each faith-holder must, of course, lift up their own faith as one that at least comes close to faith in the true God or the true Reality.  Which still leaves us with the question, "which faith is true?"



So, I've been asked whether or not I'm a Christian.  But any answer that I give can only either satisfy or disappoint based on the faith of the asker.  If I have faith, it does no good to affirm my faith with other faith-holders, for it is simply "preaching to the choir."  And if I have doubts, it does no good to air out those doubts, for those who have strong faith will simply

So, what does it really mean to be a Christian?  It means MANY different things to different people, but generally revolves around belief in a resurrected Jesus.  Now, if one is skeptical of the Bible,

Some find immediate freedom from sin, in this life and the next.  Some struggle, believing we are not free until death.  Others say that Self sits on the throne of our hearts, userping God's place until we can cast self down in the name of Jesus, requiring daily sacrifice in order to maintain salvation.  Some believe that anyone who doubts is plagued by demons and unclean spirits.  Plenty of folk believe that the emotional and psychological unwellness is the manifestation of doubt or the devil's work. 

Could it be true that all of our guilt and shame was forgiven in one glorious hug from our heavenly father??  


Some say that God lives triumphantly in all of us, regardless of faith.  Others believe you're only saved if you say the sinners prayer.  Still others believe salvation requires baptism in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.  Some say it requires unwaivering belief in a literal Bible. Others say salvation can be only be confirmed through miracles such as healings and speaking in tongues.  Some Christians say "once saved, always saved." Others say that salvation requires dying to oneself daily.  Some believe that anyone who doubts is plagued by demons and unclean spirits.  Plenty of folk believe that the emotional and psychological unwellness is the manifestation of doubt or the devil's work, and that disease and bad luck would disappear if only the unlucky person had a strong enough faith.

Some people who call themselves Christian look nothing like Christ.  Others who do not claim to be Christian demonstrate Christ-likeness.




**********
