Sun 21 Jul 2024 10:44:34 AM EDT

I don't want to type, or I don't know what to type.  Byt I can type with my eys closed.
My words can't save the world.  What does it even mean to save the world?
I'm glad my muscle memory works like it does, or I wouldn't be able to type.
I just use my left themub to hit the space bar.
Almost exclusiely.
I don't go back and edit, because there is no benefit to correcting my spelling mistakes, or other errors.l
Why?  Because this is a freewriting excercise, and no one will ever read this again.
And even if they do, they'll get the gist.
So, onward and upward, forward not backward.
I take a deep breath.  It helps me gather my thoughts and consolidate my sanity.
I feel the seas calm, the wind die down, my compass needle settles and I find true north.
I am not bound to one direction, however.  I am free to move where I please.  I scan my horizon, and take note of the direction of the gentle breeze.
A freewriting excercise, if you please.
I type, I do not swipe on a phone or screen,
obscene language sent to the back of the line by machines
who want to see me be the best me
that cattle can be.

I wish I had known Farman Clyde Wolper.  I wish I had known all along that Jesus is a false god worshipped by so many, and not the savior he was made out to be by those who gather in groups to live by faith and not by sight.  It is too late now to know him, though I can hang out with Kat.  But she has her own life to live, you know.

My ankles feel the gentle weight of nylon cordage tied just so, loose about the skin but wrapped deliberately and tied securely.
The double-twisted jute round my wrist is thick and itchy, so I always know it's there.
My cotton-polyester t-shirt is light enough for summer, but heavy enough for colder weather.
I roll my pant-leggs up, folding and doubling them over five times into a thick band at the knee.
My bare feet are calloused, cracked round the edges, but no worse for wear.

So the pantheon of gods made man in their image.  They did not make each other, they all made man.  Not men, a single man.
The literal Hebrew is:  "na-a-sah (Let us make) a-dam (Ruddy, a human being) be-sal-me-nu (in our image) kid-mu-te-nu (after our likeness).

The word besalmenu is used throughout the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible, aka The Old Testament) to refer to images made by men of gods, abominations, and (shocking!) themselves.  But, according to Baresit (Genesis) 1:26, the gods were the first to create such an image, and that image was named Adam.  Adam was not made in the image of one god.  No, e-lo-him is plural.  Elohim is the word used throughout the creation story, but most English Bibles just say God.  Modern Christianity and Judaism is, afterall and for the most part, monotheistic.  Not so during the Bronze Age, when regional religions largely resembled each other and El reigned supreme.  Not even during the Iron Age, when YHWH became the cheif among the gods of Israel.  Gradually, as history goes, the idea of worshipping gods other than YHWH fell out of favor.  But calling The Almighty by the plural elohim was already an established practice, even as the first book of the Tanakh was written.  So, many Biblical scholars interpret "elohim" as meaning "supreme being," or God.  This is much easier than contemplating the authority of an entire pantheon.  

that could mean any religion might lead back to the source!  Kindof put's the need for repentence from sin on ice.

**********
