Fri 19 Jul 2024 02:42:37 PM EDT

God did not annoint an unrepentant theif, liar, fraud, womanizer, family destroyer, 

Let's unite under some obviou

So, FB tells me we should try really hard not to be divisive now.  But how can we unite when so many people only care about the unborn child, and not the mother or family?  When we care about the Amazon rainforest but not our own backyard?

Hmm... sounds pretty lame, not very convincing, eh?

We cannot unite.  Some people have faith

I cannot be optimistic or u

"In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth."
False.  The word "God" here is literally translated "gods."  It is the Hebrew word 'el-o-him', plural of eloha ("god"), a word found many times in the old testement referring to members of the pantheon of gods that were recognized at the time of writing.  'El-o-him' is not a name for "The Almighty God," the trinity, but is a plural noun used for any god.  'El-o-him' does not mean "Godhead" or "Holy Trinity," words not found in the Bible (because these words only gained usage and popularity many years after writing).  It is the word "gods," not "Godhead" or "The LORD" (YHWH).

"And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters."
False.  Spirit of God is actually translated "wa-ru-ah el-o-him", meaning "breath of the gods."  Although "wa-ru-ah" can be translated "spirit," this word was used as a noun (like "breath" or "wind").  It was co-opted by Christian scholars and teachers, who use "wa-ru-ah" as a name ("The Holy Spirit"), which was not how this word was used.

"And God said, 'Let there be light!'
False, it's el-o-him again.  El-o-him means "the gods" and was never the name of any god.  Christian scholars presume it refers to YHWH alone (as the Trinity), but this is and has always been a presumption.

"And God called the light 'Day', and the darkness he calld 'Night.'"
False.  El-o-him again, but we also find the first of many literary evils as we peel apart English from Hebrew:  the use of the word "he" to reference el-o-him.  The second half of this passage actually reads we-la-ho-sek qa-ra la-ye-lah, "and the darkness was called night."  The us of qa-ra, "to call", is not masculine or feminine, singular or plural.  The word "he" does not appear in the original Hebrew; it was specifically chosen and added by the interpreters.  This literary stumbling block, like the misinterpretation of 'el-o-him', gives context to the reader that the writer did not provide.  And like the previous example, this misusage is intentional and prolific.

Let's deep-dive on the Bible!
The first verse of the Bible is really the first verse of the book of Genesis, which was actually the first book of the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible, which forms the bulk of the Christian 'Old Testament').  The original Hebrew title for Genesis was (approximately) "Ba re'sit", literally meaning "In the beginning," which you'll probably recognize as the first three words of most English Bibles.  But the next word is a doozu.  It's el-oh-him, which is the plural of the noun eloha, meaning "god".  So while your modern English Bible says "In the beginning, God created heaven and earth," the original version says "In the beginning, (the) gods created heaven and earth."  Here we run into trouble, because many modern Christians and Jews believe there is only one God.  This, however, would not have been a problem for the original authors.  After all, the origins of the Hebrew people and religion stem back to a time and place drenched in polytheism (the belief in multiple gods).  Indeed, the Hebrew and Christian Bibles mention multiple gods by name, including Ashera, multiple Baal's, El (the original national god of Israel), and YHWH (a name worshipped even before Caanan, and the name of the god of the conjoined kingdoms of Israel and Judah.  There were plenty of other gods worshipped by the Israelites and their neighbors.  So from their perspective, to say that "

**********
