Thu Mar 13 12:40:04 PM EDT 2025

Every Tuesday night, the young boy stares in the mirror
at the beautiful girl that he sees when mom isn't here
She blushes and pretends that she gets a compliment
when she spirit-hands her fingernails done right
But she fades back into the dark at the end of the day
No one but no one but no one could see him that way.
He prays for a sign that he's actually doing some wrong
But God just bends down with a smile while he joins him in song.
Though mom can't understand, he knows he's in God's hands
So why did the pastor say hell is where he belonged?
	And they all sing away,
	they all sing away.
	They all sing to bring Holy Fire, yes they do
	they all sing away.
He glares at himself with a shame he has always known
He cannot pretend with himself when he gets there alone
Why, God could never be in love with a girl like me,
who lives inside the body of a guy
So who am I to elevate myself?
Why should I pretend I'm not a guy?
I wish it went to show, just because you don't have both
don't mean that something else can't be inside.

looks like him, but with lipstick on
gets dressed while mom is gone, hell
she'll be out all night
getting down with her boyfriend of three years
the makeup just don't seem right,
so he washes it off for the night,
goes to bed early, and 
kisses his pillow so dear
He wishes she could just step out in the light,
with bangles and colors galore,
but he'd only get sorted with
retards and old man-whores.
It's clear that the Good Books sees wrong
in singing a womans song
when your adams apple sticks out with some scragly hair
But with each week that passes,
He yearns to join the lasses,
But most git the ick and the rest just call him queer.
	And they all sing away,
	they all sing away.
	They sing with a twinkle, they sing with a grin, yes
	they all sing away.

Now mom's in the car cleaning up in the sodium light
and while Russ is geting his duds on, he says she's alright
and if she don't want him around, to just tell him so
it's not like he'll push her around if she just tells him no.
but after the third beer that night, things started to change
he got strong and romantic while she was a-circling the drain
the belch that erupts breaks the spell
and washes away scenes of hell
playing out in the back of her mind while as the two swerve away.
	And they all sing away,
	they all sing away.
	They all sing to bring on delight, yes
	they all sing away.

The shouts from the car pulling in gives Noah a scare
mind racing with checklists of every item he dared
But by the time they walk by, the stuffed bra that catches their eye
and makeup and small mirror on the chair
He knew by the look on moms face that this was the end
Now if he had put things away, then he could pretend
But God will make things right, by purging out the blight
through hands that can direct disgust and fury.

The funeral was the Tuesday after lent
the icy rain was pelting down the tent
Mom sheds tears but doesn't say a word
one week on since Russ was seen or heard
Says a final prayer before she leaves
Showers for two hours while she weeps
bottles hit the floor, and 10 years down the road
she dies alone downtown in public housing.

Nothing short of God could make the hurting stop
and it never will again




but this makeup's not right
the Bible told him so, well
if the boys ever spot him,
locker door torn off again



She has a crush on every girl, including herself
She sings for joy when they draw near, but they'll sniff him out
He wishes he could sniff their hair, like mom sniffs mine, but
nothing in the world can make this right.
	nothing in this world can make us:
All lay down together
in a big old huddled bunch
lifting up the weight
	of humanity
Lay it down together
and lay down in the soil because
the world has got a knife to
	it's own throat.


*************

Thu Mar 13 06:15:36 PM EDT 2025


