Sat Aug 23 09:00:26 AM EDT 2025

Unaccompanied Child

	The androgenous humanoid in the navy blue blazer assumed an appologetic smile.  Their voice was encouraging and soft, but their answer was as unwavering as ever.  "I'm sorry, ma'am.  It appears that information isn't available at this time."
	Linnlee Blackmer, eyes glazed, thought about how she might rephrase her question.  She had been gently prodding the airport androids for the better part of the day, but it seemed like any useful information was coated in oil, slipping away as soon as she was closing in on it.  Despite her growing frustration, she didn't allow herself to snap.  She had to maintain her polite demeanor, lest the entity decide she was a security threat and close the conversation.  Her voice came hopeful and unassuming, as if she were truly considering the possibility of what she was saying.  "So, the child will be escorted to her next flight soon?"
	Their eyes brightened as the android made a show of typing at the terminal.  "Good question!  Let me see..."
	Linnlee sighed inwardly. She found herself watching a cat video on the screen on the wall behind the android as she waited for a response.  As if on queue, an ad for a vape pen jumped into view.  Instinctually, she bounced her eyes away and forced her mind back to the present.  She had been at the airport for several days now.  Her bathrobe was filthy.  Her thick, straight, copper hair was still gathered in a loose bun atop her wide head, though it had shifted to one side like an snow cone in the dry season sun.  Strands had come loose here and there, drifting in and out of her peripheral vision like so many mosquitos.  The constant buzz of ads and entertainment around her added to the illusion.
	She glanced down at the little girl, who stood as silent as ever just a few paces away, her wet eyes staring furiously at nothing.  Although she appeared no younger than eight years old, she sucked her thumb.  She clutched a filthy microfiber hand towel in both hands, hiding the bottom half of her face.  Linnlee wondered how long the child had been left unattended at Eire Airport, a question that no one seemed willing to answer.
	The android, their platinum braids waving with the shake of their head, spoke with timeless patience.  "It would seem that information is only available to a parent, guardian, or escort.  Are you interested in signing up as an escort?  You would be compensated."
	Linnlee pinched her bottom lip as she considered.  In a previous conversation with yet another android, she had learned that unaccompanied children were required to have a human escort in order to board an airship, a hold-over from well before the collapse of nations.  Indeed, she had learned more than she ever cared to know about airport policy.  The crash course had left her itinerary in tatters, her thoughts frayed.  She had gone so far as to miss a flight for this child, and she knew her credit would take a hit, a hit she desperately couldn't afford.  She couldn't even schedule a new flight, such as it was.  

	She took a hit of her medical vape pen.  What were her options?  She could sign up to escort the scared little girl, which would boost her bruised credit, securing an earlier flight out of EIR.  She could always work the airport hotels or bars, since any credit earned would ensure a timely flight.  Thankfully, EIR had an integrated credit system, and airport travelers were polite enough not to abuse her if she did decide to serve.  But she was loathe to subject herself to the background checks, crippling term aggreements, and invasive medical exams required to work for cities with well-integrated credit systems.
	Linnlee longed for the path of least resistance.  She'd been stuck in Eire for months working local service jobs that paid in cash, which was practically worthless and didn't build her credit.  She had to spend days at a time waiting out some of the worst weather she had seen in years, only to return to her dead end job to find she had been replaced, requiring her to spend hard-earned money on yet another job search.  While working the next job, she would contract a mosuito-bourne illness, miss work, get replaced, and put in for another job search.  It was like living the same few weeks again and again.  She was so, so tired, and the local med vape wasn't helping like it should.  She promised herself that as soon as she reached Medical East Ohio, she would get a proper vape.  And maybe a certified drink.  Local drinks were too risky.  She could  use a good drink.
	She glanced again at the girl, catching for just an instant the desperate hope in her eyes.  The girl snapped her focus back into furious aloofness.  So guarded.  Linnlee couldn't blame her, but it didn't help matters.


	The android looked up from their work at the terminal with an appologetic expression.  "I'm sorry, ma'am.  I wish I could be of more help, but you are not this little girl's guardian.  Would you like to sign up as her temporary guardian?  EIR Airport promises to compensate you accordingly.  We have everyone's best intentions at heart."  The androids warm smile and soft sparkling eyes made Linnlee's attempts at politeness seem stilted and stodgy in comparison.  Linnlee knew that, regardless of the androids demeanor, the little girl would soon be swept into a life of forced labor if someone didn't step in soon.  Best intentions indeed.

	She puffed an annoyed breath out of the side of her mouth, a mosquito strand of hair retreating in response.
	
	"When was her flight in?"
	"That information doesn't appear to be in our system," the aindroid responded
appologetically.  Not likely, thought Linnlee.
	"You're right, it's usually a parent or guardian who collects the child."
	"I appologize.  You are correct.  An escort pass is required to get her to
the gate."
	"OK, but where is her lanyard, then?  And where's her escort?"
	"So, she lives in the kids lounge.  How long has she been here, again?"
	"As I said, I don't have access to that information."
	"Why was she allowed to transfer in from another airport?  I thought that a
guardian contact was necessary for each flight."
	"I'm sorry, I don't know why that was authorized."
	They were going around in circles again.  She didn't have the emotional reserves to begin a new conversation with yet another airport attendant; she had spent the last day and a half 

	"How long has she been at EIR?"
	"Where are her parents?"
	"How?
Hi there, I found this little girl pawing through my things while I was in the
restroom.  Please return her to her parents.
	I'm sorry, her parent or guardian is not present at this airport.

	Non-humans waiting on purpose, she swore.  Lord knew how fast their processing actually was, how vast their depth of knowledge.  Yet they often seemed as slow and ignorant as a local scavenger, as if answering basic questions was a monumental chore.  It gave a chance for the ads to push through into the forefront of her mind:  energy drinks, non-toxic toothpaste, insurances against mosquito-borne illnesses...  The list went on and on, and so did the ads themselves.  One after another, it wore her mind to splinters.  She closed her eyes, gently rubbing her ears with her fingers as she took a cleansing breath.
	"Is something wrong?"  Linnlee's eyes snapped open.  There was a look of concern in the androids eyes.  Linnlee forced her well-practiced smile, though she couldn't quite make her eyes sparkle.  She was so tired.
	Handroidandroider retort was warm but dismissive.  "Oh no, dear.  Just tired.  So, were you able to find anything?"  The android returned their attention to the terminal with a "let me see," as if they had truly been distracted from their task, as if they were actually concerned about a human's well-being.  She resisted the urge to roll her eyes, knowing any sign of resistance or rudeness might cause the conversation to come to a close.  This was too important.
