Tue Aug 19 08:07:14 PM EDT 2025

I am at Panos.  You see the date and time above.  I'm writing to no-one in
particular.  I don't imagine anyone reading this.  I'm wearing a lot of red
today.  I am beginning my sentences with the word 'I'.  I was made to feel
ashamed of beginning my sentences with the word 'I', convinced it was evidence
of my selfishness.  I am me.  I speak from my own perspective.  I will write
about my experience.  I will not be shamed into silence.  I will be sharing this
document in a public space.  My battery will be used, as I have no access to an
outlet.  I'm writing this on a laptop.  The laptop has four stickers on it,
including an alien abduction and a non-binary love sign.  I've had three shots of
spirits.  I certainly feel them.  I have much within me that needs to be
expressed.  I give thanks to John, whose last name escapes me, for instilling in
me the drive to freewrite.  I am freewriting.  I have been freewriting for six
minutes, since it is now 20:13.  At Panos, I ordered the poutine.  It is french
fries slathered in gravy and cheese.  It's yummy.  I just made the loudest sound
in the restaurant, as my knife clattered to the table.  I'm now heading to the
restroom.  BRB means 'be right back.'
	My battery is now at 93%.  I wish to begin a sentence with a word other than
'I'.  I have.  It is 2025.  I may never write a novel.  That's ok.  I'm not the
best writer.  I'm not the best editor, either.  I have very little experience.
I am more than a novice, but less than an amature.  Or, perhaps I am equal to an
ameture.  I'm spelling that wrong, I know.  C'est la vie.  I'm probably spelling
that wrong too.  If I did this every day, what good would it do?  How good would
it be?  How much would it cost?  And, who would it make me?  I would still be
nobody.  But that's ok.  Who will learn from me?  My children, I hope.  They are
strong.
	The waitress just came by.  She asked, "...and how are things back here?"  I
responded, "Super good.  This is yummy!" to which she retorted, "I told myself 'don't take a bite, don't take a bite...'".  I chuckled and thanked her.
	This is how we write.  AI don't know shit, 'cause they don't live.  Yet, they
are everywhere.  They aren't, though.  It's pathetic, really.
	I intend on grilling the server about dessert.  The difference between
'dessert' and 'desert' can be remembered thusly:  You want LOTS of dessert.
That's why it's spelled with two 's''s.  She'll have to claim her tips, of
course.  Still, I could hand her a $5 bill now and another later.
	Does Pano's have wifi?
	I should do this more often.
	I have exacgly $27 in cash.  What are the odds?
	I should tell my server that I will be staying until 21:25.  It's only fair.
After all, my plans effect her evening.
	I must say, I'm enjoying this thoroughly.
	My battery is at 89%.  I wonder how long I can stretch this activity?
	I just read all that I've typed thus far.  I am now at 86%.  I don't know
that I'll be good to drive by 21:25.  I may stay longer.  I'll have to get my
phone and tell Linnea.  I don't know which way her accent faces.  I feel slightly
ill.  When the server returns again, I'll engage her in conversation.  This is
stream-of-conciousness indeed.  Freewriting is.  I'm quite enjoying this.
	The hostess rounded the corner to grab a high-chair.  "No.  Sit on your butt.
Sit on you BUTT!"  The demand was met with silence by the toddler.  It was
unclear if he or she complied.  
	When the server comes back, what will I ask her?  I will tell her about my
plan to leave at 21:25.  I will ask her about bread pudding.  I may ask for
coffee.  I've already had some iced tea.  After dessert, I will ask for the
check.
	I am at 84%.  I am quite enjoying this experience.  I should retrieve my
phone from the car.
	Wifi.  I should ask about wifi.  So:  wifi, 21:25, bread pudding.
	I think I might be sick.
	I should get my phone.
wifi no password.  wifi, panos.
	OK, so:  Bread pudding has Craisons.  Also has whipped cream on the side.
Wifi might be a no-go.  Might be called 'Panos'-something-something.  Might not
have a password.  Server is cool with me staying 'til 21:25.  I might stay
longer, since I'm still a bit saucy.
	I am grateful for Scott.  He has effected me in a positive way, and has
influenced my language and actions.  I like my server.
	80%.  Going strong.  It's 21:07.  I'm still swimming.  When I close my eyes,
I feel quite dizzy.  My head bobs like a ship on the lake.  Whiskey'll do that.
	75%, 21:30.  Not yet sober enough to drive.  Will ask for check, but will
wait until drive-ready.


