Sun Jun 15 09:18:45 PM EDT 2025

   When I was just a boy, 
   Things were looking up, from the bottom of a cold war crater
   But I was lost inside my head with video games and MTV and other things
   
   I remember polos and khakis and belts and jeans and sneakers
   'Cause boys don't care, no boys don't care
   and I remember mom jeans with tucked in t-shirts until
   Suddenly skirts and cute tops, started popping up everywhere,
   when I was just a boy.
   don't dare to make any noise.
   
   Even at the time you could see the strain as some of us
   behaved in different ways 
   And I chimed in to
   talk about problems they probably had,
   and laugh whenever they got mad.
   When I was just a boy.

      Don't make things complicated, complicated, complicated.

      When I was just a boy.
   I grew to envy all the queer kids who had figured themselves out
   They paved the way while I chickened out, but I lent a listening ear
   Then disappeared when the other Christens came around
   When I was just a boy.
   And all the shame of my silence has driven me out once again,
   But who will listen other then the choir
   All the red hats and white hats and their trucks and their guns
   They only see clowns when we're around.
      Don't make things complicated, complicated, complicated.

      When I was just a boy.
      I miss the queer kids who found their way out
      when I was just a boy.
      When I was just a boy, don't dare to make any noise.
      I watched it go down from my closet door.
      When I was just a boy, when I was just a boy.

      When I was just a boy.
      I miss the queer kids who found their way out
      when I was just a boy.
      When I was just a boy, don't dare to make any noise.
      I watched it go down from my closet door.
      I watched 'em kick 'em while they lay on the floor,
      When I was just a boy, when I was just a boy.



   And looking back it's obvious why some girls didn't want me around.
   'Cause I was just a boy
   And looking back it's obvious why the boys laughed in the locker rooms
   when I was just a boy.  I wasn't just a boy.

   But don't make things complicated, complicated, complicated.

   They just don't have skin in that old social game, and good for them,
   And gay men seem happy all the time, and wouldn't you if
   had the best of both worlds?
   But now 

   
   
   If it was all for nothing
   What did they suffer for?
   How can any of us pay our dues?

   Don't make it complicated
   Don't make it complicated, complicated


# -- posterity
   But even at the time you could see the strain as they
   behaved in different ways and then had to defend themselves in public.
   And everybody ganged up to
   talk about what problems that they probably had,
   and make fun of them whenever they got mad.
   But didn't they deserved it?
   Yeah, they must've deserved it.

   Don't make things complicated
   Don't make things complicated, complicated


   But didn't they deserved it?
   Yeah, I thought they deserved it.

  And now I watch the marches, sometimes I join them
  But mostly sit here wishing we don't need them
  And anyway who listens anymore

