Fri Aug 22 02:39:06 PM EDT 2025

No, I will not live for some unknown future, nor will I any longer live for
those who are not with me.  Meaning, I will not live as if they are there, as if
to appease their spirits somehow, or train myself to be their perfect partner/
servent/comrad.  I will not stop and look at second hand books sold in the middle
of nowhere, because I DISLIKE looking through books, I don't read the books I do
have, I don't want to keep interupting my already-too-long trip.  Now, if I had
someone in the car with me who DID appreciate those things, I'd be glad to stop.
And no, I am in no need to grieve over being alone on this trip, probably because
I have someone waiting for me at home.
	And if I didn't?


*************
Broken Humans and Failed Commitments.

	"Stop.  I didn't ask you to do that."  Robbie'd never seen someone stretch
out like that before, and it made him uncomfortable.  What if they saw?  That is,
what if another human saw?  What would they think the child was doing?  He
shuddered to think.  
   Jonathen looked up with a goofy grin.  He didn't know what else to say.  His
dad never quite seemed to get him, but the grin put everything at ease, this
time.  He shuddered to think.
	Robbie shugged his shoulders, jostling his long, greasy, curly black hair, itchy again.  It might be fleas again, or maybe just a mosquito bite.  They were everywhere this time of year.  "Ahgh."
	There was a moments giggle.  But a shadow lingered.  Why did dad get to talk 
that way, but Jonathan can't?	An infuriating question, and one never voiced
aloud.
	How could he dare?  His fathers wrath had been devastating, leaving the stark
impression there was no love left between them.  Would that feeling EVER go away?
	And, "Why would he dare?"  Oh no!  Too late, Jonathan realized he spoke
those words out loud.  With a grimace, he slowly turned to away.  What was worse,
he had forgoten to measure the look in his dad's eye, and it was a little too late now to turn back.  "Fuck."
	That was a step too far.  Robbie whipped around with an irritated expression.Talker felt the shock of cold run up and down all over his body.  He clenched
his butt and gasped.  Why did his dad have to DO that??  It felt more than rude
sometimes.  Thankfully, Dad stopped and turned his attention somewhere else.  It
was like living with a monster, sometimes.
	And how dare he act like nothing ever happened with Mom?  Liar.  She'd have
to ask Talker to find out.  He would tell her if she asked.  How could he get
her to ask?
	Talker knew he was making faces.  He hoped his father wouldn't notice.
Oh, he's smiling now.  "I wonder if he's smiling at me."  Robbie gave Talker
a quizical look, a quirky grin and wiggling eyebrows.  OK, Dad still loves
Talker.  It was easy to forget when dad could be so broody for so many years
in a row without any relief whatsoever from the suffocating silence and sad,
drooping eyes, interupted irregularly with sharp snaps of the toung and hateful
glares.  Why?  It was hard to tell, which made everything worse.  But Robbie
loves Talker, apparently.
	What should Talker believe?  He had done such a good job keeping nice with
EVERYONE, and for what?  


