Wed May 28 12:20:09 PM EDT 2025

Sinners' thought for the day:
	What a beautiful start that God gave me!
	How did I manage to fuck it up?
	I had a chance to start again and live in love,
	Instead I gave it up, turned to drink and drugs.


International TV

	Oh what a lovely day that God has given us!
	We few not getting tossed around in the global conflict.
	We had a chance to start again and live in love,
	but the ache of loss blossomed into hate and cost us.
	
	The childrens bodies getting pulled from rubble piles
	The mass of shooting in the streets, and the drone grenadiers
	They show the carcasses if your not watching Fox,
	or anybody else these days, except for things like Twitch or Tictok

	The fight for life is longer still,
		We crumble to our knees
	when daily love is getting killed
		on international TV.
	
	Oh what a lovely day that God has given me!
	Such a shame, I threw mine away on drugs and screens.
	I had a chance to live in strength and discipline
	but the ache of loss blossomed into something stupid.

	Now I know a child who wants to kill himself tonight,
	So I drag the will to fight to keep a smile on, yes
	And I know someday he'll probably take his life,
	But he might be on to something, I'm just being honest.

	Yet I know that love is out there, still
		a truth that's hard to see.
	when daily love is getting killed
		by international TV.

2x:
          it wasn't that bad, you know
	It could have something to do with fate
	We had some good times and some bad
	We still said 'love you' 'tween the hate
You know, things only could've been so good,
	And everyone dies or whatevery they say
	You know, he always felt misunderstood,
	But he didn't have to go away.
1x:
          I bought a new game yesterday,
	You know, I gotta think of something else,
	The memory won't go away,
	not unless I take my pills.
You know who I saw the other day?
	You know, I gotta think of something else,
	The memory just won't go away
	The pain won't go away

I gotta think of something else
The pain won't go away
I gotta think of something else
The pain won't go away
I gotta think of something else
The pain won't go away
I gotta think of something else

other then how I used to pray,
I think I thought something the other day.

The memory just won't go away

	
	So I fight to keep a smile on and be useful.

	Still, I know that there's something 'bout this time and place,
	although it's hard to see...
	When all the beauty in the world is getting raped,
	right in front of everybody
	and still worse happens in the dark 

	Yeah, I know there's something up there still,
		...
	Said, I know there's something up there still,
		but how does that fix the problem?
