Thu Aug 21 07:59:11 AM EDT 2025

We all have a hunger.  That's the words I'm hearing.  Someone listened to Kate
Bush.  It's a good song, though.  They just turned on the AC even though it's 64%
outside. My god, I need snow pants to drink coffee and type at the same time here
at Ember and Forge.
	It's no longer in vogue to be non-binary or trans.  I'll bet the trans
community hates me, those who are familiar.  What did I do for them?  If I
representated anyone, it was myself, not them.  I, a shapeshifter.  I, a faker,
a poser.  Women see a predator, men a pussy.  I stand tall and exist, which is
for my own good only.  I represent myself, I live for myself.  I am me.  How
proud could I be of that, really?  But how ashamed should I be, really?  Neither.
	A dark woman in a dark dress and a pink head-covering hanging down to her
hips strides by with purpose and confidence.  Meanwhile, two young women jog by,
pink skin showing between their two small pieces of active wear.

	*	*	*

	Unintelligible shouts of grief carried angrily across the desolate rubble.
The man, a rare sight in such times, pointed angrily toward his quarry: a couple
of humans bedding down for the night in a sheltering valley between foothills of
broken brick.  Javelins of PVC pipe at the ready, the man spat his rage at the
only other humans available to receive it.
	The boy seemed unconcerned, chattering to himself in his own unique tongue.
His father did not press a defense, but busied himself sifting through the debris
for firewood while keeping a wary eye on his mad persuer.  It had been several
days since the man had approached them.  Usually, he circled them, minding his
own business, on guard against the ravenous scavengers that dominated the wastes.
Mutual survival is a fickle binder, yet served to bond the two men for a time.
Monumental waves of grief broke the bond from time to time; this was not the
first time the man became a raving threat.  It was understandable.
	A jagged, eight foot long shaft of PVC wobbled through the air, landing
harmlessly nearby as the filthy man screamed in unfocused anguish.  The father
restrained his own rage, the boys chattering starting up again after a few
seconds of guarded silence.  There would be great risk in meeting force with
force, and the situation was tenuous as it was.  Best to wait out the storm in
the hopes of better weather.

	*	*	*

	It was a strange experience; a poor-man's dinner and an alien show.
	The english sung by the inhuman troupe was alien in it's cadence and
structure.  The server, a jet-black bug-like blob with four long legs, swayed as
it sung it's thick falsetto, the tray of drinks held deftly in one of it's two
soft arms.  The creature wore a black bow tie on a white cumberbund, it's maroon
dress coat unable to completely clothe it's inhumanity.  
	Voices joined in from no-where, as if there were many singers present, all
well-rehearsed despite the seemingly adlibbed nature of the lyrics.  It was
unclear where the additional voices were coming from, despite there being several
other creatures present.  They all seemed to exist for the sole purpose of doting
upon the guests gathered at the one long table in the small pavilion.  The guests
all but ignored the server and support "staff", who were a convincing facimily of
a restaurant from a previous age.  The family of humans laughed and chattered
amongst themselves, revelling in shared experience and memories unknown to the
creatures waiting dolefully upon them.
	The meal was preceeded by a romp through what appeared to be an old theme
park, whose rides were unmanned and ran only when humans occupied them.  Humans,
of course, were becoming a rare breed.  Those that existed in the outside world
were older, generations familiar with fresh air and the pleasent light of the
sun.  The rides seemed were beyond safe, if not sanitary.  Discarded beer cans
and empty snack bags littered the floors, the brown grass kept dangerously short.
Maintenance and upkeep were amongst the few jobs still held by man, consumption
and enjoyment being their prime role.  Money still made the world go round, but
common man had only a small part in the making or spending of it.  They were, for
the most part, the tolerated and celebrated occupants in terrarium Earth, an
increasingly hostile environment in which they were protected by new inhuman
systems designed to occupy and distract them, a species in hospice.

	*	*	*

	It was not your typical game of Super Mario Bros.  The Koopa Troopas were
still there, but they were not placed by human intellect.  They were spaced at
random and mixed with threats so far worse that their occasional presence was
comical.  Dark pits, orbs of deathly light, and long stretches of green pipe ran 
endlessly in both directions.  The goal was to the left, not the right, and yet
never arrived to satisfy the player.  Instead, the endless level deconstructed as
it went, regurgitating itself and adding unfamiliar elements and glitches like a
Minecraft map gone to far in one direction.  Eventually, the lengths of pipe grew
too short to jump from one to the next, with no powerups or extra lives to be
found.  What would greet the player at the bottom of the gaping pits when the
last life was lost?

	*	*	*

	Hammer struck the hot steel for the hundredth time that day in the cramped
shack.  The light breeze passing through, while insufficient, was quite welcome.
The long dry season had finally come to a close, and the rainy season had greeted
the parched land with a deluge two days before.  It was once again safe to work
steel, make charcoal, and cook with fire.  The fields of grain had been harvested
weeks ago, the surrounding forests already dropping their leaves in the muggy air
as if letting go of the burden of life.  The man understood how the trees might
feel under the weight of the unrelenting sun, and was glad for his meager
shelter, to say nothing of the meager breeze.
	Drought had taken most of the upper orchard, though there was enough
moisture in the floodplain to sustain the grain until harvest.  Squash vines, now
brown, helped protect the trees from the worst of the sun, but it was simply not
enough.  There were still plenty of blackberry canes surviving along the dry
creek bed, but the loss of so many fruit trees would command a heavy price.  Had
he known how bad this years drought would be, he would've brought up more water
from the lowlands for summer storage.  As it was, the ammount of time and laber
he had poured into the effort of transporting water by hand was back-breaking,
but well worth it.  Fresh vegetables were, after all, quite a rarity, and fetched
him much-needed tool steel from the scrap lords.
	The strained and frustrated shout of a child brought the man out of his
brooding.  Cursing under his breath, he quenched his red-hot work, set hammer on
anvil, and stormed out of the shack.  He didn't bother removing his filthy
leather apron; this shouldn't take him long.
	He found two of his three kids where he thought he might: under the shade of
the simple wooden pavilion.  One child was drawing on a piece of dry bark with a 
bit of charcoal, the other entertaining himself with their most prized possetion,
a small Naamco arcade console attached to an ancient LED screen.  They had to
keep the archaic technology a secret, else they would lose what little old tech
they had to thieves.  Working LED screens in particular were rare in the extreme,
and only one person in the area had any expertice in repairing them.
	The children knew it would be a mistake to treat the old tech carelessly.
Not because of any punishment their father would hand down to them, but because
their most sacred entertainment would be in jeopordy.
	The man wore a scowl as he approached the pair.  "What's going on?"  When
no one answered him, he turned his son on the console.  "What's the trouble,
Brian?"  
	The boy, on the cusp of major life changes and seeming to feel it, didn't move his eyes from the screen.  His young voice was thick with frustration.
"Sarah's bothering me."
	The little girl, her blond bob bouncing as she shook her head vehemently, met
her fathers eyes pleadingly.  "I wasn't doing anything!  I was just sitting
here."  She shot a glare at the back of her brothers head.  Feeling the glare, a
look of smug satisfaction briefly crossed the boys face.  He enjoyed getting the
best of his siblings.
	The man took in a calming breath.  They both enjoyed winning a fight.  He had
to handle this with care, lest he appear to favor one child over the other.
Despite his effot, annoyance crept into his voice.  "Sarah, do you mind drawing
somewhere else?"
	With a defeated groan, she collapsed onto her back, unmoving, her eyes
squeezed shut.  The boy's face took on a smug look, but he said nothing.  The man
rolled his eyes, but remained silent himself.  It would do no good to let his
annoyance goad him into goading her.  He turned his ire on his self-satisfied
son.  His voice was hard.  "So, what was she doing?"
	Brian's smile evaporated, and his voice became curt and defensive.  "I need
space."  He offered no more explanation, but the man understood; the boy could be
quite sensitive about the presence of his siblings, especially when he was 
struggling as he might with a challenging game.  The man now saw two options.  
On one hand, could ask his unstable son to take a break, risking damage to tech
or homestead, or he could push his innocent daughter out of a public space to
maintain peace.  He loathed both options, but opted for the latter.
	"Please, sweetie?  You can always draw in your cottage."  She stood in a huff
and, with a final searing glare toward her brother, tramped off.
	The boy grumbled with the hint of a smirk, "Finally..."  Disgusted, the man
stalked off without another word.  Back to the forge, than.

	*	*	*


