Fri Jan 24 03:26:33 PM EST 2025

A piece of earth

I will never be forgiven
	by everyone at once
The make-up on my face is like
	what a clown does

They don't think that they no me anymore,
	I changed too much
And in the wrong ways, because
	the Bible says it's such.

I wish I'da never - fallen so hard
But I would never climb up again
Had I known how bad - I would succomb,
I'm glad I ever kept a friend

My face is broken, so is my heart
It only almost wasn't my fault
But I had no-one, no one but me
to save me from the fall
	back to earth
	thought I was in heaven, as we begged him to take us all away
	It hurts
	probably see 'em all again, just as they fly away
	but first
	they would cry a thousand tears before they move along
	What's worse,
	knowing it for sure or knowing it won't happen at all?
	why would they stop to talk to any broken black sheep
	just act like she isn't even there, at all

I can't wash my sins away
	If they live in all other hearts
and I'm sure they
	don't forgive me.

iew into politics because it's so complex, REALLY fucking boring, and a cesspool of smoke and mirrors.  Most people I know HATED politics before the pandemic, and most people I know are quiet, honest, intelligent hardworking people.  I had enjoyed a fairly wide variety of friends from different walks of life on both sides of the aisle, and we could always get along or work through whatever.  Not so much anymore.  I admit that I'm too blame for many of my own friendships going sideways.  Over the course of my life, I've hurt close friends and family as I bumped along my path.  I've been ignorant, proud, untrustworthy, sometimes even cruel or deceptive.  And now I see demonstrated online mass ignorance, unmoving pride, untrustworthiness, vigorous deception, and cruelty, and I realize that, although I didn't cause it, I've taken part in it myself.  For those I've treated badly, I extend an apology in the hopes that one day healthy dialogue and perhaps even trust is restored.  I believe there are some close friends who would never forgive me for things I've said