Sun Jan 12 05:08:15 PM EST 2025

I don't knock anyone who proudly and emphatically supports Biden or Harris or Trump or Vance, but I don't trust any of them.  The unfortunate fact is, our leaders are often enemies of truth, peace, and welfare for all, and morally require resisting.  So, I've been actively resisting Trump on Facebook and beyond.  Why didn't I vociferously resist Biden?  For the same reason I (and most Americans) didn't really resist any of the other presidents during my lifetime:  I was too busy leading the life of the American consumer.  Did I know about Clinton and Monica Lewinski?  Sure, but who cares, I'm going to school and playing with friends.  Did I hear about Bush Jr's war crimes?  At some point, yeah.  I was trying to get a job when it all went down on the other side of the world.  Obama and Biden got their own problems, but my day-to-day life didn't revolve around them.  And then Trump came along and shook all that up.  He played the game to win by any means necessary.  He cheated the cheaters (and most everyone else).  His involvement in US politics, along with the pandemic and the upheaval sparked by the death of George Floyd in the hands of police, tore asunder the previous version of USA.  We've built back somewhat, but we are bitterly divided and chaotic and vulnerable.  So now, US Govt, you have my attention.

Now, at least, I can proudly say "Hey, I don't think we should be threatening our allies just now.  Maybe clean the other messes up first before making another?" and "You and your cohort have been lying about so much our heads are spinning.  So, no you didn't win fair and square, even if you got the votes."
  In fact, I must go on to declare my own support, as an American, of Trump and Vance as president elect and vice-president elect.  I must also, however, resist our national leaders (as anyone ought) when they act badly.
He won the game according to it's own rules using methods that have been enjoyed by leaders from members of the US Gov't "Swamp" to wall-street gamblers to sprawling megachurch pastors and beyond.  He used his clout, his brand, his connections, and his wealth to gain entry to power.  He was funded and abetted by the upper class (as in all politics and business).  Of course, he's also threatened, abused, lied, and defrauded along the way, but our leaders have concluded that that is beside the point.  And while I will support him in his capacity, I will do so only as one of millions of crew-members aboard a sinking ship commanded by a petty criminal.  And by that I mean I'm going to keep living my life and trying to benefit others around me.

As the wielder of presidential power, anyone can be dangerous.  Trump is buckwild, selfish, cocksure, and rude, like a lot of people.  So what?  So are a lot of people. I'll still support him.  However, I will also resist him.  The president is not my sovereign, he simply steers the ship.  And while I support him in that capacity, I will point out that he's certainly going to crash the ship, with a vengence.  He does not care about anything but himself.  We can only hope that his crew and the other cadres that surround him pressure him into behaving properly.

*************

Sun Jan 12 06:08:27 PM EST 2025


It's different with Trump.   Things he says and does rocks not just the boat, but the whole ocean.  Now, I'm not saying everything is his fault.  I know a lot of people feel unfairly judged for trying to support Trump, who has indeed been attacked by so many (including myself and the vice-president elect).  It could even be argued that he was demonized and that the judiciary was unfairly made a weapon of the government (I wouldn't go that far!).

