Free Shipping On Orders $79+

  • Garden Planner
  • Find a store
  • Quiz
  • Support

 

  • Learn
  • Shop

  

  • Edible Gardening
      □ Companion Planting
      □ Fruits
      □ Grains
      □ Harvesting
      □ Microgreens
      □ Nut Trees
      □ Vegetables
  • Ornamental Gardening
      □ Bulbs
      □ Cacti & Succulents
      □ Flowers
      □ Foliage
      □ Ground Cover
      □ Houseplants
      □ Shrubs
      □ Trees
      □ Vines
  • Soil & Compost
      □ Mulching
      □ Fertilizers
      □ Soil Improvement
  • Basics
      □ Accessible Gardens
      □ Gardening Tips
      □ Gardening Inspiration
      □ Homesteading
      □ Hydroponics
      □ Raised Bed Gardening
      □ Projects
      □ Propagation
      □ Seeds
  • Plant Problems
      □ Garden Pests
      □ Organic Treatments
      □ Plant Diseases
      □ Weeds
  • Products
      □ Bundles
      □ Garden Beds
      □ Live Plants
      □ Seeds
      □ Soil

  • Edible Gardening
      □ Companion Planting
      □ Fruits
      □ Grains
      □ Harvesting
      □ Microgreens
      □ Nut Trees
      □ Vegetables
  • Ornamental Gardening
      □ Bulbs
      □ Cacti & Succulents
      □ Flowers
      □ Foliage
      □ Ground Cover
      □ Houseplants
      □ Shrubs
      □ Trees
      □ Vines
  • Soil & Compost
      □ Mulching
      □ Fertilizers
      □ Soil Improvement
  • Basics
      □ Accessible Gardens
      □ Gardening Tips
      □ Gardening Inspiration
      □ Homesteading
      □ Hydroponics
      □ Raised Bed Gardening
      □ Projects
      □ Propagation
      □ Seeds
  • Plant Problems
      □ Garden Pests
      □ Organic Treatments
      □ Plant Diseases
      □ Weeds
  • Products
      □ Bundles
      □ Garden Beds
      □ Live Plants
      □ Seeds
      □ Soil

  • Garden Planner
  • Find a store
  • Quiz
  • Support

Grains

How to Plant, Grow, and Care for Barley

The barley plant is a long-sown tradition amongst grain-growers. It is also a crop
that can be grown at home. Kendra Meador explore this useful edible crop and how to
grow it yourself.

Author avatar

Written by Kendra Meador Horticulture review by Sarah Jay Last updated: August 12,
2024 | 8 min read

A wide field covered in barley plants appearing light brown with heavy heads,
slightly drooping to the side

Contents

The barley plant is one that doesn’t receive a lot of attention, but it’s worth the
time to learn about this spring annual. It may not be as popular as other small
grains such as wheat, rice, rye, oats, or corn, but nevertheless, it is still
important. 

Known as the other cereal grain, it has been cultivated for thousands of years and
is grown in areas that would otherwise not support food crops. It is also an
important source of animal feed and many beer brewers are growing their own malting
barley in search of the perfect ale. 

Each head of barley (Hordeum vulgare) produces up to 20 to 60 grains, making even a
small barley field productive for the home gardener. Barley contains eight
essential amino acids and a host of other vitamins and minerals. Besides, a beef
stew wouldn’t be as tasty or filling without barley added to the mix. 

As you continue to read this article, we will describe more about this fascinating
grain and once you realize how easy it is to grow, it will surely inspire you to
grow it in your own food garden.

Overview

A field with countless Hordeum vulgare with heads appearing to contain grains,
having yellow, green and light brown hues with the bright blue sky in the
backgroundA field with countless Hordeum vulgare with heads appearing to contain
grains, having yellow, green and light brown hues with the bright blue sky in the
background

Plant Type      Native Area Middle East, North Africa and Pests & Diseases Cutworms
Cereal grass    parts of Central Asia                     and leaf rust
Family Poaceae  Exposure Full sun                         Maintenance Low
Genus Hordeum   Height 6-7”                               Soil Type Well-draining,
Species Hordeum Watering Requirements Regular             loamy
vulgare                                                   Hardiness Zone 4-8

What is Barley?

Barley is a member of the grass family with the botanical name of Hordeum vulgare.
It is a spring annual and an ancestor of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum. Barley
production is an important crop throughout the world and one of the oldest.

Native Area

Young Hordeum vulgare growing in a aide filed still appearing green and unripe with
slight shades of yellow with the sky in the backgroundYoung Hordeum vulgare growing
in a aide filed still appearing green and unripe with slight shades of yellow with
the sky in the background
It has become a common cereal crop all over the world.

There is evidence it was domesticated at least 10,000 years ago in Southwest
Asia. It covers a wide area with most of the Middle East, North East Africa,
Central Asia and parts of Eastern Europe. It has however, been introduced in most
of the continents of the world.

Characteristics

Light green stalks of Hordeum vulgare on a wide field with vividly colored spikes
on top and smooth blades of leavesLight green stalks of Hordeum vulgare on a wide
field with vividly colored spikes on top and smooth blades of leaves
Each stem grows tall with a spiky head.

Barley grows as an erect grass with 1-6 stems and spikelets at each head. There are
independent lateral branches called tillers on each plant. Each tiller has the
potential to mature into a seed-bearing head, thus the more tillers the plant
produces, the more yield the crop will bring.

Providing plenty of nitrogen for the growing barley will help increase the number
of tillers produced. As the barley plant matures, it turns from bright green to
light brown and the spikelets produce the edible grain. Each flowering head
contains both male and female parts, which enables it to self-pollinate. 

Compared to other grains like wheat and rye, barley plants tolerate a variety of
climates and thrive in many conditions. Thus, it is an important food crop in areas
where other grains won’t grow. It is most known for its use as animal feed and
malting barley produces beer and whiskey.  

Fall planted barley can be grown as a cover crop to prevent erosion, deter weeds,
and provide valuable nutrients to the soil and many grow it as sweet tender greens,
also known as barley grass, that can be eaten by humans, dogs, and cats for an
added nutritional boost. Once the seeds are removed, the dried stalks are used as
straw for algae control in ponds and lakes. 

Types of Barley

A vibrant and green field of Hordeum vulgare having long healthy stems divided by a
machine running through the stalksA vibrant and green field of Hordeum vulgare
having long healthy stems divided by a machine running through the stalks
Many varieties exist with different uses, such as making beer and other food
products.

There are hundreds of varieties of barley seed on the market today. You will often
hear the term two-row and six-row barley. When you view a barley head from the top
down, the two-row barley has two rows of kernels while the six-row barleys have six
rows of kernels – it is referring to the arrangement of the seeds along the stalk. 

Two-row barley is preferred for beer-making since it produces a fuller flavor and
higher yields due to the lower enzyme and proteins and higher starch content.
Six-row barley is higher in protein and carbohydrates making it a good food
product. 

Two popular cultivars are the six-row ‘Robust Barley’ because it is high-yielding
with plump kernels and is resistant to stem blotch and stem rust. Pinnacle is a
two-row variety that matures a little later but has high yields, large kernels, and
strong stems. 

Planting

An area covered with ripe Hordeum vulgare looking light brown under the sun, having
heavy heads that are drooping to one sideAn area covered with ripe Hordeum vulgare
looking light brown under the sun, having heavy heads that are drooping to one side
Plant them directly on the ground.

Barley prefers cooler weather and thrives when planted in the spring or winter. You
don’t need many acres to grow this nutritious grain. For example, 200 square feet
might provide up to 40 pounds of barley once harvested.  

Plant barley in well-draining soil either in-ground, raised beds, or within large
containers. However, you may not get a big harvest when using containers alone.
With tight planting, it is possible to get up to 25 plants per square foot. The
recommended seeding rate is 95 to 120 pounds per acre. 

Barley needs full sun and regular moisture, though it won’t grow well if the ground
is soggy. Plant seeds when the dirt is workable in the spring and keep the soil
moist until germination. Barley will thrive best in cooler environments, and you
can choose varieties that perform better for the time of year you plan to plant.   

How to Grow

Caring for your own barley is an easy process. This section covers the requirements
to grow this grain and how to get the best results. 

Light

Countless stems of Hordeum vulgare covering a field, looking yellow and green with
spiky heads tilting to one sideCountless stems of Hordeum vulgare covering a field,
looking yellow and green with spiky heads tilting to one side
They thrive and mature properly with abundant sunlight.

Barley requires full sun to grow adequately, which is at least six to eight hours
per day. The more sun it gets the better the resulting harvests will be. Sunlight
provides the plants without enough energy for good photosynthesis which is
essential for plant growth and good plump grains to form.

Water

Unripe green heads of Hordeum vulgare appearing moist with tiny water droplets
covering it, with other greens in the backgroundUnripe green heads of Hordeum
vulgare appearing moist with tiny water droplets covering it, with other greens in
the background
Its watering needs vary based on the climate.

Keep the seeds moist until they have germinated and then water to keep the ground
slightly moist. How much water you need will depend on the air temperature and
humidity. Warmer temperatures will require frequent irrigation. When temperatures
drop, the need for water will decline too, barley does not like to be sopping wet. 

Water barley with any type of irrigation. Most farmers find sprinklers to be the
easiest with larger crops, though this increases the likelihood of fungal
diseases. Drip irrigation is ideal for this crop.

Soil

A gardener wearing boots, pushing the shovel into the ground to loosen up soil.A
gardener wearing boots, pushing the shovel into the ground to loosen up soil.
Loamy soil with good drainage is ideal for Hordeum vulgare.

Grow barley in well-drained and loamy, with a pH range of 6.0 to 6.5. Of all the
cereal grains, it is the most tolerant of alkaline soils, making it salt-tolerant,
drought-tolerant, and a good choice to place in overworked, weedy, and eroded
fields because it improves soil tilth. 

Temperature

A field of Hordeum vulgare appearing bright green covering an entire area with
trees in the background and dark clouds in the skyA field of Hordeum vulgare
appearing bright green covering an entire area with trees in the background and
dark clouds in the sky
Choose a variety based on their tolerance to changing climates and temperatures.

The USDA growing zone is 4-8, but you can find a variety that grows well in your
climate and the time of year you will plant it. 

The ideal temperature for growing barley is 55°F (13°C), but that too depends on
the variety you decide to cultivate. However, it is a cool-season crop and you will
have better yields in warmer areas if you plant it in the early spring or fall. 

Spring planted barley needs to be harvested before the first frost to prevent
damage to the seed heads. In northern climates, winter barley is well adapted to
survive the cold, though not as hardy as winter wheat and rye. In zone 8 or warmer,
barley will grow well when planted between September and February before
temperatures rise above 85°F (29°C).  

Fertilizing

A gardener wearing a blue latex glove holding tiny spheres of white plant food,
taken from the full sack in the back.A gardener wearing a blue latex glove holding
tiny spheres of white plant food, taken from the full sack in the back.
Test the soil first to avoid using too much fertilizer.

Barley does not require a high amount of fertilization. In fact, if you give it too
much fertilizer, it will cause the plant to produce more vegetation and fewer
seeds. It’s a good idea to test your garden dirt before applying fertilizer,
especially since this plant doesn’t need a lot of extra nutrients. 

Barley needs only a small amount of potassium and phosphorus- even less than
nitrogen. If your soil is lacking, then you can fertilize at the beginning of the
season. However, if you have a rich garden base, then it will be adequate for
growing this crop.   

Maintenance

A person holding the head of a young Hordeum vulgare between fingers, with field in
the background appearing vivid greenA person holding the head of a young Hordeum
vulgare between fingers, with field in the background appearing vivid green
Postpone flowering by mowing them.

Barley does not require pruning, but you can mow the crop to postpone flowering.
Once you remove the seed head it will take time to produce another one, since it
will eventually grow another. If you are growing it as a cover crop to incorporate
nutrients into the dirt, you will also want to mow or till it before the flowers
develop to prevent the seeds from germinating and growing in the soil at a later
time. 

Propagation

A flat pile of Hordeum vulgare seeds appearing brown still covered in husks as a
young green stem sits on top of the pileA flat pile of Hordeum vulgare seeds
appearing brown still covered in husks as a young green stem sits on top of the
pile
Use seeds to propagate Hordeum vulgare.

The only way to grow barley is from seed. In northern climates, sow the seeds in
the spring for a fall harvest. Otherwise, in warmer climates, spring barley is
ready from the fall-planted barley. The planting section mentions more about barley
cultivation and you can find widely adapted seeds for your region. 

Barley seed can be broadcasted, but make sure approximately one inch of soil covers
the seed or  the birds will eat them before they’ve had a chance to germinate.
Barley seed germinates rapidly, usually within three to five days. 

Harvesting

A field covered in Hordeum vulgare heads appearing light brown to green, ripening
under direct sunlightA field covered in Hordeum vulgare heads appearing light brown
to green, ripening under direct sunlight
Their seed heads change color and become dry as they ripen.

Once the seed heads have dried, it’s now time to harvest. This process can be
time-consuming for the home gardener, but it can also be a lot of fun and it’s not
a difficult process. 

If you plant a hull-less barley variety, the hull falls off easily. Use a hand
trimmer or sickle to cut the stalks from the base of the plant. Bundle the barley
into sheaths, with the heads at the top, and place them in the sun to dry for seven
to ten days. Once adequately dried, cut the seed head from each stem and place them
in a pillowcase. Use a soft mallet to beat the heads to release the barley kernels.
This is also known as threshing. 

Storing

Harvested grains of Hordeum vulgare placed in a glass container with a steel lid
placed on a wooden surface with white brick in the backgroundHarvested grains of
Hordeum vulgare placed in a glass container with a steel lid placed on a wooden
surface with white brick in the background
Store it in a sealed container after harvesting.

Once the small grain separates from the chaff, place the grains in an airtight
container and store in a cool, dry spot for up to six to eight months. Another
option is to place them in freezer bags and store in the freezer; they will keep at
least one year or longer. 

Common Problems

As with any grain, there can be growing concerns and possible pests and diseases
prone to affect barley. Fortunately, modern agriculture produces many resistant
varieties.

Growing Problems

An unripe Hordeum vulgare with a spiny and green seed head with other stems and
stalks in the background with brown soilAn unripe Hordeum vulgare with a spiny and
green seed head with other stems and stalks in the background with brown soil
Overwatering will lead to growing issues because of deteriorating roots.

Barley is not a difficult crop to grow, but care needs to be taken not to
overwater, since this can stimulate fungal root rots that will cause the roots to
decompose and provide mixed results with the growth of the plant. Also, rainfall or
anything that causes the heads to become wet (such as sprinklers) when it is almost
time to harvest can cause the seeds to sprout. Watch the weather forecast at
harvest time and remember there’s no need to irrigate then. 

Pests

A big cutworm sitting on a green sword grass.A big cutworm sitting on a green sword
grass.
They are vulnerable to different pests.

Compared to other cereal grains, barley produces alkaloids that deter many common
grain pests, such as armyworm larvae and aphids. Most of the pest problems occur
within large-scale storage, but a common pest seen during the growing season are
cutworms. 

Cutworms are night-flying moth larvae that eat the stems of young plants. They
range in color from tan to grey and have spots or stripes along their backs. Most
will be less than two inches long and will curl into a ball when touched. They
sleep in the soil during the day and feed at night. The best method to get rid of
cutworms is to pick them from the plant and drop them in soapy water. 

Prevent cutworm infestation by removing plant debris and weeds where the eggs are
laid. A natural pesticide option is Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), a common bacteria
that kills cutworms. 

Diseases

A cereal crop appearing young and green with spiny seed head beside an infected
leaf blade appearing green with orange-looking spotsA cereal crop appearing young
and green with spiny seed head beside an infected leaf blade appearing green with
orange-looking spots
Fungal infections usually appear on the leaves first.

Leaf diseases such as leaf rust can affect vegetative growth on the barley plant.
It is a fungal disease caused by Puccinia hordei that produces orange-brown
circular spots on upper leaf surfaces. Infection begins later in the season and
usually when there is high humidity and wet summers. 

There are cultivars that are resistant to this disease, but if your barley is
affected, an organic foliar fungicide can be applied at the first sign of
infection. Remove plants if the disease progresses to prevent further spread to the
rest of your crop. You can also prevent rust by providing plenty of space and
airflow between each plant. If it’s not an overwhelming task, removing a few
damaged leaves here and there can control the spread of rust.

Frequently Asked Questions

What is barley plant used for?

Cultivated barley is ground into flour, used as a cereal grain, or it is a nice
addition to soups and stews. Many alcoholic beverages are made from malting barley,
and sprouted barley is considered to be a superfood.

Can I grow barley at home?

Yes, barely is a great option for home gardeners because a 200 square foot area can
yield up to 40 pounds of barley. Raised beds and large containers are also options
for growing barley at home.

How long does barley take to grow?

Barley needs approximately 50-90 days to mature, depending on the variety and the
time of year it is planted. Spring barley is harvested sooner than fall planted.

What is the difference between wheat and barley?

Even though they both belong to the grass family, wheat is from the genus Triticum
and barley Hordeum. Barley is easier to cook and eat in its more natural form as a
whole grain or in pearl form. Wheat has to be milled, ground, or broken, and the
outer bran layer of the wheat is removed before it is consumed.

Share This Post

   

Shop

  • Best Sellers
  • New Arrivals
  • Seeds
  • Container Gardening
  • Seed Starting Supplies
  • Gardening Supplies
  • Sale

About

  • About Us
  • Editorial Team
  • Community Program
  • Ambassador Program
  • Customer Gardens
  • Wholesale Inquiries
  • Shipping Policy
  • Return & Refund Policy
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms and Conditions
  • Accessibility Statement

Community

  • Blog
  • YouTube
  • Podcast
  • Instagram
  • TikTok
  • Facebook
  • Discord
  • Text With Us

Customer Service

Track Your Order
Ask a Question
FAQs
Returns

Customer Service Hours
Mon-Fri 7-4 PST

Contact Us

Reach Us By Phone-
619-759-5631

© 2025, Epic Gardening

Forest sceneForest scene  
