Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Bok Choy: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Bok Choy in a garden                                                                                                                
Photo Credit
CreativeFire/Shutterstock
Botanical Name
Brassica rapa subsp. chinensis
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Part Sun
Soil pH
Neutral
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Bok Choy

Andy Wilcox
May 30, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Delicious and vibrant, bok choy (also known as “pak choi”) is a crisp, cool-season
green harvested in spring and fall. It can easily tolerate a light frost, which
improves its flavor! Learn how to plant, grow, and care for bok choy.

About Bok Choy

Bok choy are Brassicas, members of the cabbage family, which also includes
cauliflower, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts. Other common names include pak choi, pok
choi, and Chinese cabbage. Their botanical name is Brassica rapa subsp. chinensis.
They don’t form heads and grow stalks from a bulbous base, similar to celery. The
stalks and the leaves are edible and are common ingredients in
Asian-inspired cuisine. 

Bok choy is commonly purchased in the grocery or at the farmers’ market as full-sized
or baby bok choy, but they are the same plant. Baby bok choy is harvested when the
plant is younger, giving it a tender and sweeter taste. Use baby bok choy in soups
and salads and the larger, more sturdy plants in recipes like stir fry that require
longer cooking.

These plants are biennials and can be prone to bolting. Bolting in the first year is
commonly caused by cold weather followed by a period of rising temperatures, tricking
the plant into thinking it has gone through a winter. Dry soil can also cause
bolting, as can sustained hot summer weather. 

Read Next

  • How to Grow Green Onions: The Complete Guide
  • How to Grow Collards: The Complete Guide
  • How to Grow Leeks: The Complete Guide

Planting

Bok choy is great news for gardeners who struggle to find enough sunny spots to plant
all their veggies. While it grows well in full sunshine, bok choy will also grow well
in partial sun, about 3-5 hours daily. 

In hot climates, planting in a spot with morning sun and afternoon shade helps to
delay bolting. Save those super-sunny sites for your tomatoes or sweet corn!

Fertile, rich soil and a neutral pH is ideal for these heavy feeders. Work a generous
amount of compost into the soil before planting. Leave space for succession plantings
to extend your harvest. 

With its quick growing time and tolerance for light frosts, bok choy can be planted
in your garden where earlier maturing crops are already finished.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
bok choy growing                                                                                                                                                                                                              

When To Plant Bok Choy

Bok choy is not a fan of hot weather, so gardeners typically grow two crops, one in
spring and another in fall. For spring plantings, start seeds indoors 4 to 6 weeks
before your last spring frost date. Count backward 50 days from your first frost and
direct seed for fall harvests.

If you garden in a frost-free or nearly frost-free zone, your bok choy growing season
may be autumn through winter and into the spring until high temperatures arrive. 

How To Plant Bok Choy

Bok choy is usually started from seed, but transplants can be bought in the spring at
garden centers. Sow more every 2 weeks throughout spring and again in fall to achieve
a long, continuous supply of these delicious plants.

To start bok choy indoors:

  • Sow 1-2 seeds per cell in standard trays or use soil blocks. 
  • Sow seeds about a ¼-½ inch deep. 
  • After germination, thin to one seedling per cell. 
  • Snip the extras; don’t pull them, or you might damage the roots of the
    remaining plants. 
  • Harden them off before transplanting them into the garden beds.
  • They can be transplanted outside once a set of true leaves has been established
    and soil temps outside are 50°F (10°C). 

To direct seed after the last frost in spring or in late summer:

  • Prepare the bed with compost.
  • Sow seeds ½ inch deep, about three inches apart, in rows 18 inches apart.
  • Once plants are 4 inches tall, thin to a spacing of 6-9 inches apart. Eat the
    ones you remove! 

Growing

Easy to grow and tolerant of partial sun, these plants are a surefire way to get some
garden produce into your kitchen. 

  • Bok choy likes fertile, nitrogen-rich soil. Add lots of compost and
    organic matter.
  • Keep soil moisture even and slightly moist. Try to avoid extreme cycles of dry
    and wet.
  • Bok choy may bolt prematurely if exposed to cool night temperatures and the
    weather warms. Wait to transplant spring crops until the danger of frost
    has passed. 
  •  Bok choy likes an inch of water per week or more. Try to water in the morning.
    The plants will have water available during the hottest part of the day and be
    less stressed. If your mornings are hectic, consider a timer to turn your
    irrigation on and off.  
  • Mulch between plants after thinning to keep weeds down and moderate the soil
    moisture fluctuations.

Types

  • ‘Mei Qing Choi’ is a hybrid that is tolerant of heat and slow to bolt.
  • ‘Joi Choi’ is a beautiful, lush plant with vibrant green foliage and crisp
    white stems. 
  • ‘Win-Win Choi’ is a smaller variety, topping out about 12 inches tall. Great for
    baby bok choy or gardeners who don’t want a full-size plant.
  • ‘Black Summer’ has dark green leaves and pale green stems. Slow to bolt and great
    for full-sized harvest.

Harvesting

Waiting too long to harvest bok choy is a common mistake. Start harvesting your bok
choy when the plants are 12 to 15 inches tall. Use a sharp knife and trim an inch or
two above the soil. The remaining plant will likely sprout and grow a new, although
smaller, bok choy. You can also cut the outer leaves individually with a knife. The
inner leaves will continue to grow, and the plant will continue to sprout new growth.

If you wish, harvest a few plants earlier for baby bok choy (when 6 to 8 inches
tall). The spacing created will allow the rest to keep growing larger. Baby bok choy
can be harvested as soon as 30 days after planting, while others are left to grow to
maturity. Some varieties will grow for 60 to 70 days in cool weather before reaching
peak size. 

Succession planting and harvesting of multiple-size plants can extend your bok choy
harvest. With a bit of practice, you’ll enjoy fresh bok choy for many weeks every
spring and fall. 

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • Bok choy can be protected from insects with row covers if they are eating your
    crop, but be sure to anchor it well so it doesn’t flap in the wind and damage
    the plants.
  • Bok choy is low in calories but high in vitamins. It’s an excellent source of
    vitamins C, K, and A.

Pests/Diseases

                             Bok Choy Pests and Diseases
Pest/Disease  Type            Symptoms                    Control/Prevention
                     Yellow/brown/purple/black   Destroy infected plants; choose
                     spots on leaves; sunken,    resistant varieties; provide good
Anthracnose  Fungus  dark spots on stems; spots  drainage; avoid overhead watering;
                     may develop a salmon-pink,  apply compost; use mulch; rotate
                     gelatinous mass;            crops
                     eventually, rot
                                                 Grow companion plants; knock off
                                                 with water spray; apply insecticidal
                     Misshapen/yellow leaves;    soap; put banana or orange peels
   Aphids    Insect  sticky “honeydew”           around plants; wipe leaves with a 1
                     (excrement); sooty, black   to 2 percent solution of dish soap
                     mold                        (no additives) and water every 2 to
                                                 3 days for 2 weeks; add native
                                                 plants to invite beneficial insects
                     Yellow, V-shape areas on
                     leaf edges that brown and   Destroy infected plants; choose
                     progress toward leaf        resistant varieties; provide good
 Black rot   Fungus  center; leaves eventually   drainage; remove plant debris;
                     collapse; stem cross        rotate crops
                     sections reveal blackened
                     veins
                     Large, ragged holes in      Handpick; add native plants to
  Cabbage    Insect  leaves from larval feeding; invite beneficial insects; spray
  loopers            defoliation; stunted or     larvae with insecticidal soap or Bt;
                     bored heads; excrement      use row covers; remove plant debris
                                                 Use collars around seedling stems;
Cabbage root         Wilted/stunted plants;      monitor adults with yellow sticky
  maggots    Insect  off-color leaves; larvae    traps; use row covers; destroy crop
                     feeding on roots            residue; till soil in fall; rotate
                                                 crops
                     Leaves have large, ragged   Handpick; use row covers; add native
                     holes or are skeletonized;  plants to invite beneficial insects;
Cabbageworms Insect  heads bored; dark green     grow companion plants (especially
                     excrement; yellowish eggs   thyme); spray Bacillus thuringiensis
                     laid singly on leaf         (Bt)
                     undersides
                     Wilted/stunted plants;      Destroy infected plants; solarize
  Clubroot   Fungus  yellow leaves; roots appear soil; maintain soil pH of around
                     swollen/distorted           7.2; disinfect tools; rotate crops
                                                 Handpick; in spring before planting,
                     Wilting; severed stems of   cultivate soil to reduce larvae;
                     seedlings and transplants   wrap a 4-inch-wide collar made from
  Cutworms   Insect  just above or below soil    cardboard or newspaper around each
                     line; whole seedlings       stem, sinking 2 inches into soil;
                     disappear                   weed; use row covers; destroy crop
                                                 residue
                     Yellow, angular spots on
                     upper leaf surfaces that    Remove plant debris; choose
Downy mildew Fungus  turn brown; white/purple/   resistant varieties; ensure good air
                     gray cottony growth on leaf circulation; avoid overhead watering
                     undersides only; distorted
                     leaves; defoliation
                     Numerous tiny holes in      Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
Flea beetles Insect  leaves                      native plants to invite beneficial
                                                 insects
                     Typically, white spots on   Destroy infected leaves or plants;
                     upper leaf surfaces expand  choose resistant varieties; plant in
  Powdery    Fungus  to flour-like coating over  full sun, if possible; ensure good
   mildew            entire leaves; foliage may  air circulation; spray plants with 1
                     yellow/die; distortion/     teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1
                     stunting of leaves          quart water; destroy crop residue
                                                 Handpick; avoid thick bark mulch;
                                                 use copper plant collars; avoid
                                                 overhead watering; lay boards on
                                                 soil in evening, and in morning
                     Irregular holes in leaves;  dispose of “hiding” pests in hot,
Slugs/snails Mollusk slimy secretion on plants/  soapy water; drown in deep container
                     soil; seedlings “disappear” filled with 1/2 inch of beer, or
                                                 sugar water and yeast, and sunk so
                                                 that top edge is slightly above
                                                 ground; apply 1-inch-wide strip of
                                                 food-grade diatomaceous earth as
                                                 barrier
                     Yellow/white blotches on    Destroy crop residue; handpick (bugs
                     leaves; eggs, often         emit odor, wear gloves); destroy
 Stinkbugs   Insect  keg-shape, in clusters on   eggs; spray nymphs with insecticidal
                     leaf undersides             soap; use row covers; weed; till
                                                 soil in fall
                     Leaves, especially in folds Remove plant debris; choose
                     near base, have white       resistant varieties; add native
                     patches or silver streaks;  plants to invite beneficial insects;
   Thrips    Insect  brown leaf tips; blistering use row covers; use straw mulch;
                     /bronzing on cabbage        monitor adults with yellow or white
                     leaves; curling or scarring sticky traps; use sprinklers or
                                                 other overhead watering
                     Pale gray, “water-soaked”
                     areas on stems, leaves, and Destroy infected plants; ensure good
                     other plant parts that      air circulation; water in morning;
 White mold  Fungus  enlarge and develop white,  weed; destroy crop residue; rotating
                     cottony growth, later with  crops on 5-year or longer cycle may
                     black particles; bleached   help
                     areas; crowns rot; plants
                     wilt/collapse

Vegetables
About The Author

Andy Wilcox

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_6463]                        
Andy Wilcox is a flower farmer and master gardener with a passion for soil health,
small producers, forestry, and horticulture. Read More from Andy Wilcox
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Onion spring sibies scallion stem stalk Allium cepa thick bulb common or

How to Grow Green Onions: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Top-down view of a collard green plant                                  

How to Grow Collards: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Leeks in ground                                                         

How to Grow Leeks: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
variety of microgreens in trays                                         

How to Grow Microgreens at Home: A Beginner's Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[august-sowing-crop]                                                    

What Vegetables to Plant in Late Summer

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Growing Mustard Greens                                                  

How to Grow Mustard Greens: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Dan W (not verified)

11 months ago

How deep of a container would be needed to grow bok choy?

  • Reply

The Editors

10 months 4 weeks ago

In reply to How deep of a container… by Dan W (not verified)

Hi, Dan. It would be best to grow your bok choy in a container that is 20 inches deep
with a width of at least 12 inches. 

  • Reply

Dan W (not verified)

10 months 4 weeks ago

In reply to Hi, Dan. It would be best to… by The Editors

Thanks. That is deeper than I expected. Good info.

  • Reply

Cheryl (not verified)

1 year 5 months ago

I would love to see tips on storage for freshly harvested veggies, such as bok choy,
carrots, and others

  • Reply

The Editors

1 year 5 months ago

In reply to I would love to see tips on… by Cheryl (not verified)

Thanks, Cheryl!
Check out this article about storing fresh veggies.

  • Reply

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
