Menu

MorningChores

Search

  • Homestead
  • Gardening
      □ How to Start a Garden
      □ Planting Zone Map
      □ First & Last Frost Dates
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Garden Size Calculator
      □ Plant Growing Guides
      □ Fertilizer Calculator
      □ C/N Compost Calculator
      □ Gardening Basics
  • Animals
      □ Chickens
      □ Beekeeping
      □ Goats
  • DIY
  • More
      □ Frugal Living
      □ Food & Drinks
      □ Home Decor
      □ Survival & Prepping
      □ Handmade

    
[                    ][]
[                    ][]
   

  • Gardening
      □ Planting Zone Map
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Plant Growing Guides
  • Homestead
  • Money
  • Home Ideas
  • DIY
  • Raising Chickens
  • Food & Drinks
  • Products
  • Become a Writer at Morning Chores
  • About Us

    

Growing Catnip: The Complete Guide to Plant, Care, and Harvest Catnip

By Steph Coelho
[2a9fa6ec0ebd4d0d][svg]Steph Coelho

Steph is a certified Square Food Gardening Instructor who has been gardening for
more than 10 years in Canada where the winters are long and cold, and the summers
are unpredictable. She is a volunteer for her community's Incredible Edible
project. In the past she created an educational gardening space for seniors and
taught classes at a local community center where she created her own curriculum and
activities. She participated in several local municipal garden days where she set
up a booth to educate citizens about the joy of gardening.

Print
[Growing-Catnip-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Care-and-Harvest-Catnip-FI][svg]

Catnip is a perennial herb well-known for its ability to drive felines crazy. What
it’s less known for is its potential to help with a variety of human ailments, from
anxiety to migraines. Whether you’re wanting a treat for the kitties or an addition
to the medicine cabinet, growing catnip is the answer.

The plant belongs to the mint family and contains nepetalactone, which is
chemically similar to cat pheromones. Cats love the scent of this plant, so dried
catnip is often used in cat toys to entice pets to play. I’ve grown catnip in my
garden before, but it didn’t last long. I pulled it out once I realized how quickly
cats found their way to my garden.

I planted catnip in an effort to please one of the feline visitors in my garden.
The sweet grey cat that I call Bento appeared the first week we moved into our home
and never stopped showing up. I planted it away from my main beds in an effort to
get her to stop plodding all over my plants.

The introducing of catnip had the opposite effect. Cats came in in droves and used
my raised beds as a litter box. Now gone from my garden, the problem has been
rectified, thankfully! One day, when I finally have my own cat, I’ll be sure to
plant a veritable bounty of catnip. It is easy to grow, after all!

I find it funny how catnip affects felines. As a dog owner, seeing cats react to
catnip really differentiates the animal species. Cats are calm and aloof most of
the time but show them catnip, and they lose it. Dogs are energetic and
attention-seeking most of the time and give them a good bone to chew, and they’ll
calm right down.

[Growing-Catnip-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Care-and-Harvest-Catnip][svg]

Why Grow Catnip?

[butterfly-3369144_640][svg]

Why bother growing catnip in the first place? There are lots of great reasons to
plant it, including:

Cats Love It

The herb is safe for pets and cats love it, so whether you have a pet cat or you’re
attempting to appease friendly neighborhood cats, the plant won’t harm your furry
friends. If you’re a cat owner, it’s a nice treat to give to your feline pal. Dried
and added to cat toys, the plant drives kitties wild. They become playful and
energetic. Eaten, the herb has sedative and calming effects. The enticing scent of
catnip makes it a great training aid. Avoid filling your kitty up with treats and
use catnip to help with training.

Redirects Animals

Plant it in a faraway area of your garden to divert the attention of roaming cats
who are already traipsing through your plants. They’ll lose interest in your garden
beds and go straight for the catnip. In the home, use catnip to encourage cats to
play with certain toys or scratch certain areas of your house and avoid others.

Medicinal Properties

Catnip isn’t just useful for soothing felines. The plant has medicinal properties
and was once used as a treatment for a variety of ailments, including stomach
upset, anxiety, and the common cold.

Attracts Pollinators

The flowering herbs not only attracts cats but also pollinators like bees and
butterflies, which are vital to the health of your garden.

Attracts Beneficial Garden Predators

Probably one of the most significant benefits of planting catnip is its ability to
attract predators like lacewings and parasitic wasps, which are helpful or
controlling specific pest populations.

Tasty Ingredient

You can use catnip anywhere you’d use mint: as a tea, chopped into soups and
salads, or as a topping for desserts.

Is there any reason to avoid planting and using catnip? The only risk involved for
your fur pal is that in some cases – and in large quantities – it may cause an
upset tummy. Catnip can also encourage cats to enter into your garden, which not
everyone may appreciate.

Catnip Varieties

[catnip-724539_640][svg]

There are a few varieties of catnip. Some are more suited for the ornamental
garden, while others are better if you’re looking for something to use medicinally.

True catnip (Nepeta cataria)

This is the one you want if your main objective is to please your feline friends or
if you’re growing catnip for its medicinal uses. It gets about 3 feet tall and has
white blossoms with a faint purple spotting. True catnip is native to Europe, but
it has naturalized across the U.S.

Catmint (Nepeta mussinii)

Catmint is in the catnip family, but the plants are different. It tends to have a
bushier growth habit and to have showier flowers. The blossoms are purple, unlike
catnip’s flowers, which are usually white. Catmint doesn’t have the chemical
compound that drives kitties wild, so it’s more useful as a mint substitute or an
ornamental.

Lemon catnip (Nepeta cataria citriodora)

As the name implies, this variety has a lovely lemony scent. It’s excellent as an
insect repellent, and you can use the natural oils in the leaves to keep mosquitos
away.

Greek catnip(Nepeta cataria parnassica)

This variety is a little smaller than true catnip, only reaching about 18 inches
tall. It has white or pale pink flowers.

Six Hills Giant catmint (Nepeta mussinii faassenii)

This variety is so good looking in the garden that it can be planted as an
ornamental. It has a ton of flowers and will bloom a second time in the summer if
you trim it back after its first blossom. Six hills giant is extremely drought
tolerant and gets 3 feet tall.

Camphor catnip (Nepeta camphorata)

Camphor catnip has pretty white flowers with purple dots. In only grows about 18
inches tall.

Planting Catnip

[catmint-267522_640][svg]

Growing catnip is incredibly easy. The low-maintenance plant tolerates a variety of
conditions and soil types. The mint-family plant is likely to spread aggressively
like its mint cousin. Keep it in a container, if possible.

Growing Zones

Catnip is a hardy and perennial in zones 3 and up to zone 9.

Sun Requirements

While catnip prefers hot weather and full sun, it will grow in partial shade.

Soil Requirements

This plant is extremely tolerant of poor soils. It’ll grow nearly anywhere, which
is what makes it so prone to aggressive growth. That said, if you want your catnip
to be happy and potent, plant it in rich, well-draining soil with a pH between
6.1-7.8.

Where to Plant

Careful, catnip will obviously lure cats to your yard. Think about the consequences
of planting some right in the middle of your garden. Plant in a container and you
can easily move the plant around to more convenient areas should cats become a
nuisance. Consider growing it indoors if it’s for your feline pet pals, to prevent
contamination as a result of bird droppings or air pollutants.

Staring by Seed

Seeds require stratification to germinate, because of their tough outer coating.
Freeze seeds and soak in water prior to sprouting to encourage germination. Sow
seeds lightly on the surface of the soil, don’t plant too deep.

Direct Sowing

The perennial herb returns every year after the winter, so expect it to continually
spread over time. You may direct sow in the early spring, once the soil is
workable, or in the late fall.

Another option? Take some catnip from a friend or neighbor who has too much to deal
with.

Starting Indoors

Start seedlings indoors and transplant once established if you want to get a head
start on planting. Start catnip indoors a few weeks before you want to plant. Seeds
germinate within 5-10 days.

Transplanting

Transplant starts once temps have climbed in the spring and the danger of frost is
passed. Harden plants off for a few days before setting in the soil. Set out too
early, and cats may come for your young seedlings. To prevent seedling damage,
cover your crops.

Spacing

Give catnip 18 inches between plants and rows.

Caring for Catnip

Since it’s a member of the mint family, it won’t come as a surprise that catnip is
relatively easy to care for.

Water Requirements

Most varieties are drought-tolerant and prefer dryer spots in the garden. Avoid
watering too much as it can cause root rot in plants.

Mulching

Mulching is unnecessary considering catnip’s vigorous growing habits and tolerance
of drought conditions.

Pruning

After flowering, before the plant begins to self-sow, prune aggressively to prevent
the spread of this mint-family plant. Pruning is more likely to be required if
plants are grown within a larger garden area. In containers, it’s not as important.
Pruning after bloom will also encourage a second blooming period.

Succession sowing

Because catnip spreads so readily, it’s not necessary to succession sow.

Fertilizing

It’s not necessary to fertilize catnip plants as they tolerate poor soil quite
well. Don’t waste fertilizer on these plants.

Problems and Solutions for Growing Catnip

I wasn’t kidding when I said that catnip is easy to grow. The plant is nearly
problem-free. It grows much like a weed, so it’s a plant that encounters few
problems. Low-maintenance catnip is an excellent choice for new gardeners having
trouble establishing other pollinator-friendly plants. Anyone can grow it.

Still, here are a few problems that you might want to watch out for.

Growing Problems

Why is it not growing back after the winter?

If the plant is not well established and experiences a deep freeze, there’s a risk
that it may not return. Your container may not provide enough protection for your
plant. The other reason? Cats may have decimated your crop.

My plant doesn’t look healthy (or it’s dying) what’s going on?

Your plant may have been exposed to a disease. Fungal infections like Cercospora
may affect your catnip plant. Treat with fungicide if a fungal disease is suspected
and remove plants that are too far gone. Too much water can cause root rot. It
could be that you’ve planted it in a spot where the soil doesn’t drain. Remember
not to plant catnip in a spot where you previously grew mint.

Cats keep destroying my catnip! How do I prevent this from happening?

[domestic-cat-726989_640][svg]

If you have a problem with cats trampling all over your catnip, use netting to
cover it, and prevent damage. If netting doesn’t work, use sturdier protection like
chicken wire to keeps cats away.

Whitefly

As the name implies, this pest looks like a tiny, white fly. They’re related to
aphids and, like their cousin, they suck the life out of plants. They also leave a
honeydew behind that can attract other diseases. Get rid of them by blasting them
off plants with a strong spray of water. Then apply neem oil regularly for the next
few weeks.

Spider Mites

There is hardly a plant out there that isn’t subject to the sucking jaws of the
spider mite. Luckily, they’re fairly easy to control. Blast them off plants with a
spray of water and then use a regular application of neem oil.

Mint Rust

Mint rust impacts all of the plants in the mint family. It causes orange-red marks
to form on leaves. Encourage beneficial insects and give plants plenty of air
circulation. Water at the base of plants in the morning. You can also treat with
azoxystrobin.

Slugs

Slugs have been known to take a bite out of catnip. Use your favorite snail control
method.

Aphids

Aphids feed on plants, causing them to have stunted growth or to become weakened.
Get rid of them the same way you would whiteflies.

Powdery Mildew

Powdery mildew causes plants to become covered in a fine, white powder. Make sure
plants have lots of good air circulation, water at the base of plants, water in the
morning so catnip has time to dry, and apply neem oil during the wet season.

Companion Planting for Catnip

Because it grows aggressively (like mint), it’s best to plant catnip separately
from tender plants in the garden because they’ll quickly be smothered.

Plant catnip in containers and place near aphid-infested crops to encourage
lacewings to settle in the garden. The plant is also an excellent deterrent if
you’re dealing with potato bugs, asparagus pests, or annoying squash insects.
Catnip is also a great repellent for Japanese beetles, which may attack a number of
plants including beans.

Plant catnip next to:

  • Collards
  • Tomatoes
  • Squash
  • Beets
  • Pumpkin
  • Hyssop
  • Potatoes
  • Rosemary
  • Sage
  • Mint
  • Tulips
  • Lavender

Don’t plant catnip next to kale or cucumber.

Harvesting and Storing Catnip

Used as a cat treat or in cat toys, catnip is best dried before use. Cut leaves as
needed and use to brew tea (which has calming effects) or garnish dishes or add to
salads. Flowers and leaves are both edible. To dry catnip, cut full stalks and dry
in the sun. Remove and crumble leaves and add to cat toys. Harvest the plant
frequently to encourage bushy growth and prevent the plant from setting seed too
early. Frequent harvest also helps prevent the aggressive spread of catnip plants.

What are you planning on doing with your catnip plants? Let us know in the
comments.

This image has an empty alt attribute; its file name is
Growing-Catnip-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Care-and-Harvest-Catnip-PIN-470x800.jpg
This image has an empty alt attribute; its file name is
Growing-Catnip-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Care-and-Harvest-Catnip-PIN-470x800.jpg

[aloe-vera-2-352x235][svg]

A Guide to Growing Aloe in Your Home or Garden

[Growing-Raspberries-A-Complete-Guide-on-How-to-Pl][svg]

Growing Raspberries: A Complete Guide on How to Plant, Grow, & Harvest Raspberries

parsley rootparsley root

Growing Parsley Root: How to Plant and Care For This Forgotten Vegetable

[growing-junipers-352x235][svg]

Growing Juniper: A Complete Guide on How to Plant, Grow, and Use Juniper

[shutterstock_2315411739-352x235][svg]

How to Grow Persian Cress as an Edible Ornamental

Growing honeyberry plantGrowing honeyberry plant

Growing Honeyberry (Haskap): Varieties, Planting, Care, and Harvest Guide

[Growing-Persimmons-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Gr][svg]

Growing Persimmons: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Persimmon

[Growing-Cucumbers-Your-Guide-to-Plant-Grow-and-Ha][svg]

Growing Cucumbers: Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, Problems, and Harvest

[Growing-Agretti-Varieties-Planting-Guide-Care-Pro][svg]

Growing Agretti: Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, Problems, and Harvest

[rapeseed-plant-352x235][svg]

Growing Rapeseed: Planting Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

[growing-marigolds-352x235][svg]

How to Grow Marigolds in Your Garden for Food and Pest Control

[Growing-Button-Mushrooms-A-Complete-Guide-on-How-][svg]

Growing Button Mushrooms: A Complete Guide on How to Plant, Grow, & Harvest Button
Mushrooms

[Brazil-Nuts-Planting-Guide-Care-Problems-and-Harv][svg]

Brazil Nuts: Planting Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

[Growing-Savory-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Grow-a][svg]

Growing Savory: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow and Harvest Savory

[Growing-Mizuna-Greens-Best-Varieties-Planting-Gui][svg]

Mizuna Greens: Best Varieties, Growing Guide, Care, Problems, and Harvest

[growing-taro-352x235][svg]

Growing Taro: How to Plant and Care For This Marvelous Root Veggie

[5-Ways-to-Growing-Lettuce-Indoors-in-Containers-3][svg]

Growing Lettuce: How to Plant Lettuce Indoors or in Containers Year Round

[Bitter-Melon-Best-Varieties-Growing-Guide-Care-Pr][svg]

Bitter Melon: Best Varieties, Growing Guide, Care, Problems, and Harvest

[Growing-Sage-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Grow-and][svg]

Growing Sage: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Sage

[growing-mibuna-352x235][svg]

Growing Mibuna: All You Need to Know About Planting and Caring for Mibuna

[shutterstock_2013936962-352x235][svg]

Globe Amaranth: Growing and Caring for Gomphrena Plants

[Growing-Celery-Best-Varieties-Planting-Guide-Care][svg]

Growing Celery: Best Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, Problems, and Harvest

  • About Morning Chores
  • Jobs
      □ Become a Writer
      □ Short-Form Video Creator
  • Contact Us

© 2025 MorningChores. All rights reserved | Privacy Policy · Terms of Use ·
Disclosure

