Skip to content
Harvest to Table

Join our gardening family to receive the latest tips. SUBSCRIBE

SEARCH

  • Edible Plants
      □ Vegetables
      □ Herbs
      □ Fruit
      □ Harvest
      □ Edible Garden Planning
      □ Seed Starting and Propagation
      □ Planting and Planting Beds
      □ Season Extension
      □ Crop Problems
  • Ornamental Plants
      □ Ornamental Garden Design
      □ Houseplants
      □ Annual Flowers
      □ Perennial Flowers
      □ Bulb Flowers
      □ Harvest to Table Groundcovers Guide
      □ Ornamental Grasses
      □ Vines
      □ Growing Shrubs: A Gardener’s Guide from Harvest to Table
      □ Trees
      □ Succulents
      □ Cactus
      □ Ferns
      □ Roses
      □ Lawn
  • Garden Basics
      □ Container Gardening
      □ Soil and Amendments
      □ Plant Propagation Guides
      □ Beneficial Insects for Your Garden
      □ Garden Pests
      □ Plant Diseases
      □ Weeds
      □ Planting and Planting Beds
      □ Podcast Topics Index
  • Kitchen/Recipes
      □ Bakery
      □ Breakfast and Brunch
      □ Casseroles
      □ Desserts
      □ Main Courses
      □ Salads
      □ Sandwiches
      □ Side Dishes
      □ Soups and Stews
  • Course
      □ My Account
      □ Contact
  • Videos
      □ Podcast
  • Index

Harvest to Table
SEARCH
Coriander 2
Herbs | How to Grow | Plant

Cilantro Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Guide

●ByStephen Albert

Sharing is caring!

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Save

The herb leaf called cilantro and the herb seed called coriander grow on the same
plant. Cilantro is also known as Chinese parsley. Both cilantro and coriander come
from the plant Coriandrum sativum. In the United States, cilantro is the name for
the plant’s leaves and stem; coriander is the name for its dried seeds.
Internationally, the leaves and stems are called coriander, while their dried seeds
are called coriander seeds.

Cilantro-coriander is a warm-weather annual. Sow cilantro in the garden in spring
two to three weeks after the last expected frost date.

Parsley-like cilantro leaves can be snipped for fresh use as soon as the plant is 6
to 8 inches tall; the round-ribbed coriander seed will be ready for harvest about
100 days after sowing. 

Here is your complete guide to growing cilantro.

Table of Contents

Toggle

  • Where to plant cilantro
  • When to plant cilantro
  • How to plant cilantro
  • Cilantro companions plants
  • Watering and feeding cilantro
  • Cilantro care and maintenance
  • Growing cilantro in containers
  • Cilantro pests and diseases
  • How to harvest cilantro and coriander
  • Cilantro and coriander in the kitchen
  • Preserving and storing cilantro and coriander
  • Cilantro propagation
  •  Cilantro varieties to grow
  • Get to know cilantro and coriander

Where to plant cilantro

  • Best location: Plant cilantro in full sun; it will tolerate light shade.
  • Soil preparation: Cilantro grows best in well-drained but moisture-retentive
    soil rich in organic matter. Prepare planting beds in advance with aged
    compost. Cilantro prefers a soil pH of 6.0 to 6.7.

Cilantro leaves
Cilantro leaves

When to plant cilantro

  • Seed starting indoors: Cilantro grows a taproot and is best sown in place
    outdoors. If you start seed indoors be careful not to disturb the taproot at
    transplanting time. Start seeds in individual pots about the time of the last
    spring frost for transplanting out in about four weeks. Seeds germinate in 10
    to 14 days.
  • Seed starting outdoors: Sow seed in the garden in spring about 2 to 3 weeks
    after the last frost. Time late plantings so that harvest comes before the
    first hard frost. Cilantro will die back in freezing weather. Succession plant
    cilantro every two weeks for a continuous supply of leaves.
  • Transplanting to the garden: Set out transplants two to three weeks after the
    last spring frost.
  • Outdoor planting time: Direct sow cilantro outdoors after danger of frost is
    passed then plant every two to three weeks for a steady supply of leaves. Thin
    plants when they are three inches tall for permanent spacing.

How to plant cilantro

  • Planting depth: Sow cilantro seed ¼ to ½ inch deep.
  • Spacing: Thin successful seedlings from 8 to 12 inches apart. Space rows 12 to
    15 inches apart.
  • How much to plant: Grow 12 cilantro plants over the course of the season for
    cooking and culinary use; plant successive crops every two weeks for a
    continuous supply of cilantro leaves. Grow 20 plants for preservation.

Cilantro companions plants

  • Companion planting: Plant cilantro with anise, garlic, chives, eggplant,
    potatoes, tomatoes, and salad burnet; but not fennel. Cilantro enhances the
    growth of anise. Cilantro’s blooms attract beneficial insects to the garden
    including parasitic wasps; the pungent smell of cilantro is said to deter
    aphids from nearby plants.
  • Winter growing: Grow cilantro indoors in winter in a bright window or under
    fluorescent lights.

Cilantro plant growing in the garden
Cilantro plant growing in the garden

Watering and feeding cilantro

  • Watering: Keep the soil evenly moist throughout the growing season. Do not let
    cilantro dry out. Avoid overhead watering as plants reach maturity; overhead
    water or rain can reduce seed yield.
  • Feeding: Add aged compost to the planting bed in advance of planting cilantro.
    Do not fertilize at midseason. Avoid too much nitrogen or plants will sprawl.

Cilantro care and maintenance

  • Care: Keep planting beds weed-free to reduce competition for nutrients and
    light. Tall stems may require staking. Pinching off flowers will slow bolting.

Growing cilantro in containers

  • Container growing: Cilantro can be container grown as an annual in summer or
    indoors in winter. Choose a container at least 12 inches deep. Cilantro
    produces a taproot.
  • Winter growing: In cold-winter regions, over-winter cilantro in an unheated
    garage or covered patio.

Cilantro pests and diseases

  • Pests: Nematodes can attack cilantro roots. Repel nematodes by planting
    marigolds nearby.
  • Diseases: Anthracnose and leaf spot can attack cilantro. Spray foliage with
    compost tea, a natural fungicide—and foliar fertilizer.

How to harvest cilantro and coriander

  • When to harvest: Cilantro leaves can be harvested at any time after the plant
    is 6 to 8 inches tall. Plants mature 60 to 75 days after sowing. To harvest
    coriander seed, the plant requires 100 or more days.
  • How to harvest: Snip cilantro leaves for fresh use after the plant is 6 inches
    tall or more. Small immature leaves have the best flavor. Pick just the top 2
    to 3 inches to ensure continuous growth. Snip off the tops of stems before the
    plant flowers for a continued harvest of leaves. Continue picking leaves until
    the plant flowers.
  • Seeds: Coriander seeds are harvested after cilantro flowers; the seed will be
    ready for harvest 2 to 3 weeks after flowering when they turn light brown. Hang
    stems and seed heads upside down in a paper bag in a cool, dry place. The seeds
    will fall into the bag as they ripen. Seeds are small, only about ⅛ inch in
    diameter. The ripe seed will smell spicy.

Cilantro and coriander in the kitchen

  • Flavor and aroma: Cilantro leaves have a strong flavor that combines sage and
    lemon; the seed taste of citrus.
  • Leaves: Cilantro leaves are often used in Mexican and also Southeast Asia
    cooking. Mince leaves and add them to food or use them whole as a garnish. Chop
    fresh leaves and serve them with tomatoes, green onions, and minced garlic. Add
    minced leaves to sandwiches for zippy flavor. Add leaves just before serving.
  • Seeds: Use coriander seeds on home-baked bread and to flavor beets, onions,
    sausage, clams, and potatoes. Add seeds whole or ground to marinades, salad
    dressings, cheese, eggs, and chili sauce. Toast seeds before adding to dishes.
    Dried seeds taste of citrus; they can be chewed to relieve an upset stomach.
  • Roots: Cilantro roots taste like leaves with an added nutty flavor. Add fresh
    minced roots to salads and relishes. The cilantro-coriander root is often used
    in Thai cooking.

Coriander seeds and cilantro leaves
Coriander seeds and cilantro leaves

Preserving and storing cilantro and coriander

  • Refrigeration: Fresh cilantro leaves can be kept in the refrigerator for up to
    a week; place the stems in water and put a plastic bag over the leaves to
    retain the aroma. Leaves lose their flavor and aroma when dried or frozen; so
    used them fresh.
  • Drying: Dry coriander seeds thoroughly before using. The aroma of coriander
    seeds changes from unpleasant to savory as it dries. Seeds are usually scalded
    in hot water to protect them from insects, but hot water-treated seeds cannot
    be planted later. Cilantro leaves can be dried on a screen in a dark, cool,
    well-ventilated place.
  • Freezing: The flavor of cilantro leaves disappears when dried or frozen.
  • Storing: Cilantro leaves are best used fresh but can be dried and stored in an
    airtight container. To preserve leaves, make cilantro butter, oil, or vinegar
    (use white wine vinegar). Dried seeds can be stored for several months in an
    airtight container. Scald seeds before you store them to protect against insect
    damage in storage.

Cilantro propagation

  • Seed: Cilantro is propagated by seed sown in mid-spring, late summer, or early
    fall.

 Cilantro varieties to grow

  • Some seed growers designate coriander for seed only or cilantro leaf only
    production.

Get to know cilantro and coriander

  • Botanical name and family: Coriandrum sativum (Apiaceae—parsley family)
  • Origin: Europe, Asia Minor, Russia
  • Type of plant: Herbaceous annual
  • Growing season: Grow cilantro in spring and autumn; hot days and short nights
    of summer will cause flowering and seed formation.
  • Growing zones: Zones 3-10
  • Hardiness: Cilantro is resistant to cold; it tolerates some heat. Grow cilantro
    in just moist soil in tropical to temperate climates during the cooler parts of
    the year, Cilantro does not tolerate hot temperatures; it bolts rapidly in the
    heat.
  • Plant form and size: Cilantro grows 10 to 25 inches tall; cilantro grows a
    central stem to 18 inches high with an umbrella-shaped cluster of tiny
    pinkish-white flowers; side branches with secondary flower clusters grow from
    the main stem.
  • Leaves: Young leaves growing from the main stem are oval with toothed edges;
    older leaves growing on the side branches are feathery and finely divided.
  • Flowers: Cilantro has small delicate white to pale pink flowers that grow on
    flat clusters; there is one central flowering stem that grows upright from the
    taproot; branches grow out from the stem.
  • Bloom time: Cilantro blooms from spring to late summer.
  • Seeds: Small round, ribbed, beige-colored seeds follow flowers in late summer.
    Seeds look like white peppercorns and are lemon-scented.

Also of interest:

How to Grow Basil

How to Grow Rosemary

How to Grow Sage

How to Grow Oregano

How to Grow Mint

Related articles:

How to Start an Herb Garden

Best Herbs for Container Growing

Herbs for Cool Season Growing

Growing Herbs for Cooking

Planning the Home Fruit Garden

Home Fruit Garden Maintenance

Garden Planning Books at Amazon:

  • Vegetable Garden Almanac & Planner
  • Kitchen Garden Grower’s Guide Vegetable Encyclopedia
  • Vegetable Garden Grower’s Guide
  • Tomato Grower’s Answer Book

[7f5c76c54f]
Stephen Albert

Stephen Albert is a horticulturist, master gardener, and certified nurseryman who
has taught at the University of California for more than 25 years. He holds
graduate degrees from the University of California and the University of Iowa. His
books include Vegetable Garden Grower’s Guide, Vegetable Garden Almanac & Planner,
Tomato Grower’s Answer Book, and Kitchen Garden Grower’s Guide. His Vegetable
Garden Grower’s Masterclass is available online. Harvesttotable.com has more than
10 million visitors each year.

Similar Posts

  • How to Grow Crown of Thorns — Euphorbia

    How to Grow Crown of Thorns — Euphorbia

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    The Crown of Thorns plant, Euphorbia milii, gets its common name from the sharp
    spines that protect the thick stems of this cactus-like plant. A relative of
    the poinsettia, the crown of thorns has small grayish-green leaves that provide
    year-round color, while bright red flower bracts appear in fall and winter.
    Crown of thorns thrives…

    Read More How to Grow Crown of Thorns — Euphorbia

  • How to Grow Jacob’s Ladder — Polemonium

    How to Grow Jacob’s Ladder — Polemonium

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    Polemonium — Jacob’s ladder–is a lush perennial with finely divided foliage and
    bears clusters of tubular, saucer, or bell-shaped flowers in spring and summer.
    Blooms are borne in either branched clusters or singly and usually in shades of
    lavender-blue or white, but sometimes purple, pink, or yellow. Polemonium
    produces clumps of leaves divided in a pinnate fashion;…

    Read More How to Grow Jacob’s Ladder — Polemonium

  • Chives growing in the garden

    Chives: Planting, Growing, Harvesting Tips and Techniques

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    Chives are a hardy cool-weather perennial plant, a relative of the onion. The
    tips of chive leaves have a mild onion flavor. Adds chives to salads and as a
    garnish for many cooked dishes. Chives have slender, round, hollow grass-like
    leaves 6 to 10 inches long. Globe-like pinkish-purple flowers shoot up in
    spring on stalks…

    Read More Chives: Planting, Growing, Harvesting Tips and Techniques

  • Seedling Swiss Chard 1

    Swiss Chard Seed Starting Tips

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    Chard—Swiss chard—is a cool and warm-season crop. It will tolerate frost and
    keep growing in summer. The optimum soil temperature for germination is 50° to
    8°5F (10°-29°C). Direct—seeding is the most common way to start chard. Sow seed
    in the garden 2 to 4 weeks before the last average frost date in spring. To
    get…

    Read More Swiss Chard Seed Starting Tips

  • Eggplant young fruit flowered attached

    How to Plant and Grow Eggplant

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    Eggplant is a very tender warm season perennial grown as an annual. Grow
    eggplant in the warmest, frost-free time of the year. The edible fruit can be
    long and slender or round or egg-shaped fruit. The fruit is creamy-white,
    yellow, brown, purple, or sometimes almost black. Eggplant is a small- to
    medium-sized bush vegetable that…

    Read More How to Plant and Grow Eggplant

  • How to Grow Corn

    How to Grow Sweet Corn: The Complete Guide from Planting to Harvest

    [7f5c]ByStephen Albert

    Corn is one of the most rewarding crops you can grow in a home garden. Whether
    you’re planting sweet corn for summer barbecues, ornamental corn for autumn
    decor, or popcorn for cozy movie nights, growing corn brings both beauty and
    bounty to your garden. After more than 30 years of growing corn, I’ve learned
    what…

    Read More How to Grow Sweet Corn: The Complete Guide from Planting to Harvest

[book-banner-512x1024][htt-masterclass-1]

[youtube-box-1024x576]

Buyer’s Guides

  • Leaf Blowers
  • String Trimmers
  • Chainsaws
  • Rototillers
  • Wheelbarrows
  • More

Featured Posts

garden crops
Growing Season for Vegetables: From Planting to Harvest
USDA map
First and Last Frost Dates and the Garden Growing Season
Seedlings started indoors
Starting Vegetables Indoors: 15 Varieties for Success
Tomatillos in ceramic pots
Container Sizes for Growing Vegetables – Harvest to Table
vegetables in containers
Calculating Soil Requirements for Different Container Sizes
Lettuce growing in grow bags
Grow Bags Gardening Tips for Abundant Harvests
Container garden on balcony1
Essential Balcony & Rooftop Garden Tips – Harvest to Table

Vegetables

  • How to Grow Sweet Peppers: A Gardener’s Guide to a Bountiful Harvest
  • Ultimate Guide to Growing Cucumbers From Planting to Harvest
  • Complete Guide to Growing Vegetables in Containers
  • The Ultimate Tomato Growing Guide: From Seed to Harvest
  • The Ultimate Potato Growing Guide: From Seed to Harvest
  • The Ultimate Guide to Growing Snap Beans: From Planting to Harvest

Herbs

  • Basil Growing and Harvesting: Expert Tips and Techniques
  • Cilantro Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Guide
  • How to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Thyme
  • How to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Mint
  • Chives: Planting, Growing, Harvesting Tips and Techniques

Fruit

  • Growing Blueberries: A Home Gardener’s Guide
  • Growing Delicious Apples at Home: From Planting to Harvest
  • Growing Peaches and Nectarines: Planting to Harvest
  • Plant, Grow, and Prune a Pear Tree: Harvest to Plate
  • Plum Tree Planting, Care, and Pruning Guide for Success
  • Citrus Planting, Growing, Pruning Tips – Harvest to Table

Kitchen

  • Preparing and Serving Sweet Peppers — Harvest to Table
  • Creative Eggplant Cooking Ideas – Harvest to Table
  • Creative Cauliflower Recipe Ideas for Your Kitchen Table
  • Garlic Cooking and Serving Ideas for Your Harvest Table
  • Watermelon Flavor Pairings to Complement Your Harvest Table

Buying Guides

  • Lawn Mowers
  • Wheelbarrow Buyer’s Guide — Best-Rated Wheelbarrows
  • Leaf Blower Buyer’s Guide — Best-Rated Leaf Blowers
  • Rototiller Buyer’s Guide– Best-Rated Tillers
  • Lawn Mower Buyer’s Guide — Best-Rated Mowers
  • Hedge Trimmer Buyer’s Guide — Best Rated
  • Chipper Shredder Buyer’s Guide — Best Rated

About

  • Podcast
  • Vegetable Garden Grower’s Masterclass
  • About Harvest to Table
  • Visit Garden Chronicle

Social Media

  • Facebook
  • Instagram

© 2016 - 2025 Harvest to Table
Privacy Policy

Gardening Tips in your Inbox!

Subscribe today to get our weekly recipe newsletter! You don’t want to miss out!

Name[                    ]
Email*[                    ]
Email[                    ]
Subscribe
Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form

What can we help you find?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[                    ]
Search
  •  
  •  
  • 

  • Edible PlantsToggle child menu
      □ Vegetables
      □ Herbs
      □ Fruit
      □ Harvest
      □ Edible Garden Planning
      □ Seed Starting and Propagation
      □ Planting and Planting Beds
      □ Season Extension
      □ Crop Problems
  • Ornamental PlantsToggle child menu
      □ Ornamental Garden Design
      □ Houseplants
      □ Annual Flowers
      □ Perennial Flowers
      □ Bulb Flowers
      □ Harvest to Table Groundcovers Guide
      □ Ornamental Grasses
      □ Vines
      □ Growing Shrubs: A Gardener’s Guide from Harvest to Table
      □ Trees
      □ Succulents
      □ Cactus
      □ Ferns
      □ Roses
      □ Lawn
  • Garden BasicsToggle child menu
      □ Container Gardening
      □ Soil and Amendments
      □ Plant Propagation Guides
      □ Beneficial Insects for Your Garden
      □ Garden Pests
      □ Plant Diseases
      □ Weeds
      □ Planting and Planting Beds
      □ Podcast Topics Index
  • Kitchen/RecipesToggle child menu
      □ Bakery
      □ Breakfast and Brunch
      □ Casseroles
      □ Desserts
      □ Main Courses
      □ Salads
      □ Sandwiches
      □ Side Dishes
      □ Soups and Stews
  • CourseToggle child menu
      □ My Account
      □ Contact
  • VideosToggle child menu
      □ Podcast
  • Index

