Menu

MorningChores

Search

  • Homestead
  • Gardening
      □ How to Start a Garden
      □ Planting Zone Map
      □ First & Last Frost Dates
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Garden Size Calculator
      □ Plant Growing Guides
      □ Fertilizer Calculator
      □ C/N Compost Calculator
      □ Gardening Basics
  • Animals
      □ Chickens
      □ Beekeeping
      □ Goats
  • DIY
  • More
      □ Frugal Living
      □ Food & Drinks
      □ Home Decor
      □ Survival & Prepping
      □ Handmade

    
[                    ][]
[                    ][]
   

  • Gardening
      □ Planting Zone Map
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Plant Growing Guides
  • Homestead
  • Money
  • Home Ideas
  • DIY
  • Raising Chickens
  • Food & Drinks
  • Products
  • Become a Writer at Morning Chores
  • About Us

    

Growing Fenugreek: Plant Varieties, How-to Guide, Problems, and Harvesting

By Tasha Greer
[fa6a85a30b140391][svg]Tasha Greer

Tasha has been an active herb gardener, foodie, and from-scratch cook since the
year 2000. In 2014, she started homesteading for greater self-sufficiency in rural
Surry County, North Carolina. She currently keeps dairy goats, chickens, ducks, a
pet turkey, worms, and (occasionally) pigs. She gardens on about two acres and
grows a large variety of annual and perennial edible, medicinal, and ecosystem
support plants. She is an Extension Master Gardener Volunteer and teaches classes
in her community related to Edible Landscaping, Organic Gardening, and Introduction
to Permaculture. She has also co-authored several books about backyard chickens,
livestock watering systems, and vinegar production.

Print
[Growing-Fenugreek-Plant-Varieties-How-to-Guide-Problems-and-Harvesting-FI][svg]

If you buy an item via links on this page, we may earn a commission. Our editorial
content is not influenced by commissions. Read the full disclosure.

Conjure the scent of that “maple-flavored” syrup you put on pancakes as a child.
You know, that comforting, caramelized candy scented stuff that wafted across the
kitchen entrancing you to the table. Do you remember your anticipation as you
pulled the top and smothered pillowy golden pancakes in a brown glaze?

Well, chances are that incredible aroma wasn’t from real maple. It is more likely
that the syrup was made from corn syrup and the fragrance was derived from
fenugreek seeds.

Even though my personal tastes now run to 100% grade A maple syrup, I still savor
the scent of that supermarket syrup substitute. Now though, I prefer to add that
amazing aroma to pumpkin and winter squash dishes, to any of my Indian-inspired
cuisine, and to a host of spicy/savory soups I serve as comfort food.

If you want to bring that waft of childhood nostalgia to your grown-up healthy
cooking, then you need to start growing fenugreek leaves and seeds at home.

[Growing-Fenugreek-Plant-Varieties-How-to-Guide-Problems-and-Harves][svg]

The History of Fenugreek

Fenugreek has been in use since antiquity. Some roasted seeds found in Iran date
back to at least 4000 BC. Dried seeds were found in the tomb of Tutankhamun from
around 1323 BC. Romans supposedly used it to flavor wine.

Its name, though, means “Greek hay” and it has been used as a legume to feed cattle
for thousands of years. Today, most of the world’s fenugreek production occurs in
India with Rajasthan, a northern state, providing about 80% of what the country
produces. However, it can also be easily grown at home.

Varieties of Fenugreek

[Fenugreek-800x502][svg]

Unless you are a commercial grower in India, it’s nearly impossible to find
different official varieties of fenugreek. However, depending on where you source
your seeds, your plants may exhibit different characteristics.

If you buy fenugreek as a cover crop, those seeds will tend to produce more leaves
for longer and should be good for multiple harvests. If you buy from seed companies
that supply primarily home gardeners you can tell a lot from the descriptions and
photos.

For example, if the seeds are called methi rather than fenugreek, they may produce
more leaves. Similar to cilantro and coriander, fenugreek primarily refers to the
seed while the term ‘methi’ refers to the leaves.

Look for descriptions that best match your growing fenugreek goals. If you really
just want seeds, buy seeds from distributors that proclaim prolific seed production
and large pods. For leaves, look for descriptions like ‘large leaf size’ and
‘multiple harvests.’

Planting and Growing Fenugreek

[Fenugreek-Seeds-800x508][svg]

Fenugreek is the ultimate herb for beginners. It can be grown in shallow containers
and directly in the ground. It can be planted whenever temperatures are between
50-90ºF. Plus, it’s ready to harvest in 20-40 days.

USDA Zones

Fenugreek can be grown as a seasonal annual in all USDA zones as long as you will
have at least 40 days of temperatures ranging between 50-90ºF or provide sufficient
light and heat indoors. It can also be grown in winter in USDA zones 10-12.

Sun Requirements

Fenugreek prefers full sun but will grow in partial sun or partial afternoon shade,
though shady conditions may lead to more fungal pathogen problems.

Soil

Like most legumes, fenugreek will tolerate a wide variety of soil types. However,
for best results, it should be planted in well-prepared garden soil that has been
amended with compost. It only requires moderate fertility and will not grow well in
soil that has excess nitrogen.

Seed Starting

Seeds should be planted about ¼-inch deep. You can pre-soak the seeds for 4-24
hours to expedite germination.

I’ve had the best luck soaking seeds for about 8 hours. Germination in soil tends
to happen about 24-48 hours after soaking for that time period.

When I have soaked the seeds longer, some seeds germinate in water. For most
plants, water germinated seedlings tend to do fine when transplanted. However, for
fenugreek, I’ve noticed that the mature plants seem to be stronger if they
germinate in the soil.

Spacing

Most planting guides recommend giving each plant 6-inches of space in all
directions. In a cool climate, or if grown during extended cool periods, this
spacing works well because plants develop large leaves and occupy the space.

Personally, I grow fenugreek in all sorts of conditions. In hot weather with long
sunny days, the leaves simply don’t seem to get that large and the area looks very
bare if you plant that far apart.

So, for late spring to early fall fenugreek growing, I like to put a few seeds in
the same hole and grow 3-4 plants together as a mass. Then I give that grouping of
fenugreek about a square foot of space. That allows the roots plenty of room to
grow away from each other to seek nutrients and water.

Fenugreek Care

[fenugreek-1049596_1280-800x529][svg]

Fenugreek is extremely easy to grow as long as you keep the soil around it moist
and minimize weed pressure.

Watering

Fenugreek needs consistent moisture for healthy, disease-resistant plants. Watering
about every 3 days when there’s no rain, has resulted in the best production in my
garden. After seed pods develop, I drop down to watering once a week until the pods
are ready to harvest.

A watering can with a diffuser nozzle disperses water around the root zone without
disturbing the plant. Drip and soaker hose systems also work well for routine
irrigation.

Avoid flooding the roots of fenugreek though as the plant is susceptible to root
rot. So running a hose without a shower sprayer attachment is not ideal for
watering your fenugreek plants.

Weeding and Mulching

You will need to minimize weeds around this plant for good production. However, you
want to be careful not to disturb the root system of the fenugreek.

Since this plant is quick to germinate, establish, and set seeds it often doesn’t
develop deep and entrenched roots. So, pulling weeds can disturb the delicate roots
of fenugreek.

I weed the bed before planting. Then I use mulch, such as leaf mold, to side-dress
the plants after they emerge and suppress weed seed germination. If weeds emerge,
you can clip them at the head with scissors to keep them in check until you harvest
your fenugreek.

Fertilizing

This plant really only needs some well-aged compost to grow well. You don’t want to
add any kind of fast-acting fertilizer for good production. Excess nitrogen will
stunt these plants.

If plants need a mid-season fertility boost, compost tea is your best bet to
stimulate growth. Just add 1 part compost tea to every 8 parts water in your
watering can and moisten the soil like usual. You can also use low nitrogen, high
beneficial bacteria fertilizers like fish emulsion to perk plants up in extended
hot or dry periods.

Common Problems

Fenugreek has very few problems in an organic garden. The slightly bitter, spicy
taste to the leaves tends to deter varmints and deer. From my experience, even bean
beetles don’t seem to realize this plant is a legume. However, there are a few
things to be on the lookout for.

Common Pests of Fenugreek

– Problem: Aphids

Aphids tend to go after just about everything in the garden at some point, even
fenugreek. They don’t usually cause much damage to seed pods. However, if you are
growing Fenugreek for leaves, they make eating methi seem pretty unappetizing.

– Solution

Fortunately treating aphids is incredibly easy. Just use a soft cloth and some
soapy water to wash them off. Then, drench your plant with water to eliminate the
soap.

Note: Don’t shoot these plants with a strong hose spray like you might for aphid
infestations on other plants. The plants aren’t usually deep-rooted enough to
withstand that kind of pressure.

– Problem: Flea Beetles

Flea beetles are about the most troublesome pest in my garden. They are so tiny and
fast that it’s difficult to control them. Luckily, they don’t tend to do much
damage to healthy plants.

In the case of fenugreek though, the leaves are small and so even a little flea
beetle damage can make the plant aesthetically unappealing.

– Solution

Honestly, the only answer I know that works every time is growing fenugreek under
floating row covers. Some gardeners also use a 70% mix of neem oil spray with some
success. However, you have to reapply every 7-10 days for continued protection.

To reduce the overall population of flea beetles in your garden, there are also
things you can do such as hanging sticky strips during mating season, using tape to
collect the beetles from the undersides of leaves in the early morning, and
introducing beneficial nematodes into your garden soil to control the larvae.

Common Diseases of Fenugreek

Fenugreek can potentially host any disease common to other legumes. However, there
are only a few that growers really need to worry about. Thankfully, most can be
controlled with good cultural practices.

– Problem: Powdery Mildew

Powdery mildew is a fungal infection that can reduce plant production by up to 30%
and negatively impacts the plant’s appearance.

– Solution

Powdery mildew is easier to prevent than treat. Ensuring plants are grown in full
sun with good air circulation, will reduce risk. Also, making sure the soil is
consistently moist and doesn’t alternate between drought and drenching will help.

For homesteaders who make cheese, using a gentle spray bottle to coat plant leaves
with a 50/50 mix of water and whey, every few days when plants are at risk can also
provide a measure of protection. (Note, this is not yet proven by science, but it
has worked exceptionally well in my garden for a number of powdery mildew
susceptible plants).

– Problem: Cercospora Leaf Spot

Cercospora leaf spot is another potentially damaging fungal pathogen that can
reduce your crop of methi leaves and damage seed pods.

– Solution

Growing fenugreek in temperatures that stay consistently below 70ºF is your best
preventative for avoiding this fungal disease. Using certified seeds from a
reputable source or pre-treating seeds with fungicides can help. Also, in extreme
cases spraying fungicides may be necessary.

Good crop rotation is also key. Don’t plant fenugreek in areas where other legumes
have been for at least three years to reduce risks.

– Problem: Charcoal Root Rot

Charcoal root rot is aptly named after the appearance of the disease as it makes
its way up the inside of the plant stem to its leaves. You’ll need to cut open the
stem to see the damage. However, the appearance of the desiccation of the outer
parts is usually what makes people notice the plant has a problem.

This plant disease is most commonly discussed in reference to soybeans but can be a
problem for other legumes, including fenugreek, as well.

– Solution

Fungicides are ineffective in treating this pathogen. So, if you suspect an
infection, your best bet is to pull impacted plants and avoid planting legumes in
that area for at least 3 years.

Again though, prevention is possible by growing fenugreek in cooler temperatures
and keeping the soil consistently moist. In ideal conditions, this pathogen is much
less likely to get a foothold in your garden.

Also, amending your soil with well-aged compost and neem meal or cake might dilute
and suppress some development of the pathogen.

Companion Planting

Fenugreek is not a particularly common plant to grow in the garden. However, it is
gaining popularity as more and more of us begin to grow our own herbs and spices.
As such, there are not many confirmed companion plants for fenugreek at this point.

My own garden research suggests that given the similarities between fenugreek and
soybeans, they tend to have similar plant incompatibilities. Here are my best
suggestions for fenugreek.

Best Companions

  • Corn
  • Squash
  • Potatoes
  • Peppers
  • Cucumbers
  • Rye

Worst Companions

I also tend to avoid planting any legume next to members of the allium family.
These include:

  • Bulb Onion
  • Spring Onions
  • Garlic
  • Shallots
  • Chives
  • Egyptian Walking Onions

Harvest and Storing

The harvest procedures for seeds versus leaves are very different.

Harvesting Leaves

If you want to eat the leaves, you can remove the older leaves first and leave the
younger leaves in place to continue growing fenugreek.

You can also harvest the entire plant and then succession plant replacements for
leaves. Many people will even grow these as microgreens and eat the roots as well.

Leaves can be eaten fresh in salads or added to curry dishes. They can also be
dried to use as seasoning later. Dried herbs tend to have a shelf life of 6 months
to a year at best depending on how often you open and close your container.

Harvesting Seeds

If you are growing fenugreek for seeds, you’ll get fatter seed pods and faster
production if you don’t harvest any leaves. That’s why it’s a good idea to grow
some fenugreek plants only for leaves. Then, reserve some to grow unharvested for
good seed production.

When harvesting the seeds, wait until the pods plump and begin to yellow. Then you
can harvest the pods. Let them fully dry. Then, split the pods and harvest the
seeds. In dry areas, you can let the pods dry on the plant if you don’t have any
pest issues.

Store the dried seeds in an airtight container out of direct light and in a cool
place with limited temperature fluctuations. To really express the flavor of the
seeds they need to be roasted. However similar to coffee, they will taste better if
you wait to roast the seeds right before you use them.

To roast, heat up a cast iron pan and toss them in for a few minutes. Turn them
each time they start to smell like brown sugar until all sides are lightly browned.
Then use your seeds immediately in your favorite recipes.

[Growing-Caraway-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-Grow-][svg]

Growing Caraway: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow and Harvest Caraway

[The-Definitive-Guide-on-How-to-Grow-Peppers-352x2][svg]

Growing Peppers: Planting Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

[Growing-Tatsoi-Varieties-Planting-Guide-Care-Prob][svg]

Growing Tatsoi: Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

Breadfruit growing on a treeBreadfruit growing on a tree

Growing Breadfruit Tree: Best Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

[Growing-Muskmelons-Best-Varieties-Care-and-How-to][svg]

Growing Muskmelons: Best Varieties, Care, and How to Harvest

[papaya-fruit-352x235][svg]

How to Plant and Grow Papayas Indoors or Outdoors

[Growing-Blackberries-A-Complete-Guide-on-How-to-P][svg]

Growing Blackberries: A Complete Guide on How to Plant, Grow, & Harvest
Blackberries

[Growing-Cranberries-Your-Guide-to-Grow-Plant-and-][svg]

Growing Cranberries: How to Grow, Plant and Harvest Cranberries

[Beginners-Guide-to-Growing-Green-Beans-352x235][svg]

Growing Green Beans: All You Need to Know About Planting Green Beans

[Growing-Cauliflower-The-Complete-Guide-to-Plant-G][svg]

Growing Cauliflower: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Cauliflower

[shutterstock_1961446381-352x235][svg]

Growing Lovage: How to Plant, Grow and Care For This Flavorful Herb

[Growing-Mullein-Growing-Guide-Care-Problems-and-H][svg]

Growing Mullein: Growing Guide, Care, Problems and Harvest

[growing-romanesco-352x235][svg]

Growing Romanesco: How to Plant and Care For Romanesco

[Growing-Broccoli-The-Complete-Guide-to-Planting-G][svg]

Growing Broccoli: The Complete Guide to Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Broccoli

[durian-fruit-352x235][svg]

Growing Durian Tree: How to Raise This Incredibly Unique Fruit

[growing-limes-352x235][svg]

Growing Limes: Best Varieties, Planting Guide, Care, and Harvest

[shutterstock_1397380112-352x235][svg]

Black Salsify: How to Grow This Tantalizing Medieval Root Vegetable

[chameleon-plant-growing-352x235][svg]

Growing Chameleon Plants: How to Care for and Use This Amazing Herb

[natal-plum-352x235][svg]

Natal Plum: How to Grow and Raise This Tasty Ornamental Shrub

[Growing-Kale-FI-352x235][svg]

Growing Kale: The Complete Guide to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Kale

[Growing-Spinach-How-to-Plant-Grow-and-Harvest-Del][svg]

Growing Spinach: How to Plant, Grow, and Harvest Delicious Spinach

[galangal-roots-352x235][svg]

How to Plant, Grow, Care For, and Harvest Galangal

  • About Morning Chores
  • Jobs
      □ Become a Writer
      □ Short-Form Video Creator
  • Contact Us

© 2025 MorningChores. All rights reserved | Privacy Policy · Terms of Use ·
Disclosure

