[]
Gardening Know How Gardening Know How
×
[                    ] Search
  •  
  • Flowers & Foliage Flowers & Foliage
      □ 
          ☆ Flowers & Foliage [ ] Flowers & Foliage
              ○ View all Flowers & Foliage
              ○ Flowers
              ○ Foliage
              ○ Trees
              ○ Shrubs
              ○ Bulbs
              ○ Cacti & Succulents
              ○ Groundcover
              ○ Fungus
              ○ Vines
              ○ Water plants
  • Fruit & Vegetables Fruit & Vegetables
      □ 
          ☆ Fruit & Vegetables [ ] Fruit & Vegetables
              ○ View all Fruit & Vegetables
              ○ Vegetables
              ○ Fruits
              ○ Grains
              ○ Herbs
              ○ Nut trees
  • Houseplants
  • Problems Problems
      □ 
          ☆ Problems [ ] Problems
              ○ View all Problems
              ○ Disease
              ○ Pests
              ○ Weeds
              ○ Environmental
  • Regional Gardening Regional Gardening
      □ 
          ☆ Regional Gardening [ ] Regional Gardening
              ○ View all Regional Gardening
              ○ Garden by Region
              ○ Garden by Zone
              ○ Planting Zones
  • Sustainable Gardening Sustainable Gardening
      □ 
          ☆ Sustainable Gardening [ ] Sustainable Gardening
              ○ View all Sustainable Gardening
              ○ Organic Gardens
              ○ Water-Wise Gardening
  • How To How To
      □ 
          ☆ How To [ ] How To
              ○ View all How To
              ○ Specialty Gardens
              ○ Gardening Tips
              ○ Garden Design
              ○ Projects
              ○ Lawn Care
              ○ Composting
              ○ Mulch
              ○ Propagation
              ○ Soil & Fertilizers
              ○ Tools
  • More
      □ Gardening Videos
      □ Learning Channel
      □ eBook and Short Courses
      □ Ideas & Inspiration
      □ About Us
      □ Advertise
      □ Subscribe
      □ Garden For Good
      □ Ask an Expert
      □ Just for Fun
  • 

Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter     
Don't miss these
Sweet pea flowers against the sky
Flowers How & When To Harvest Sweet Peas for Seeds – Save Seeds Now To Grow More
Fabulous, Fragrant Blooms for Free Next Year
Woman working the soil in garden
Soil, Fixes & Fertilizers 3 Fall Soil Tasks You Need to Do Now for Perfect Planting
in Spring
Dried herbs hanging in front of a blue wooden wall
Herbs 6 Herbs to Harvest and Dry Before Frost Hits
Mixed planting in a sunny border in an English garden. Includes Catananche,
Eryngium and ornamental grasses.
Flowers 7 Flower Seeds You Can Throw Down in November and Forget Until Spring
Houseplants in a room with a piano
Houseplants As an Indoor Gardening Expert, I Do These 7 Things Every Fall to Save
My Houseplants From Seasonal Stress
Freshly harvested organic vegetables in basket on veg plot
Vegetables 8 Vegetables to Plant in September for a Harvest That Lasts From Fall
Through Spring
Lettuce and kale seedlings in a cold frame
Gardening How To Why Wait for Spring? Plant These 13 Cold-Frame Crops in Fall for
an Early Harvest
Vegetable garden filled with beautiful plants
Vegetables 10 Vegetables to Plant in October for Easy Crops and a Bumper Harvest
Lush vegetables grow in a community gardening plot.
Vegetables 7 Vegetables to Plant in November for a Big Harvest with Minimal Effort
(and 1 Wildcard Fruit)
Herbs growing in a planter in the fall
Herbs 8 Hardy Herbs to Plant in Fall for Fuss-Free Fragrance and Flavor
Woman harvests tomatoes
Tomatoes 5 Clever Ways to Extend Your Tomato Harvest into Fall for Flavorsome
Homegrown Produce
Garlic bulbs and garlic scapes in mesh grocery bag on wooden counter
Garlic Planting Store-Bought Garlic: Expert Growing Tips for a Successful Harvest
A basket of garlic cloves next to a furrow in soil where more cloves are being
planted
Garlic The Best Time to Plant Garlic by Zone (And Why Timing is Everything)
strawberry fruits harvested in wicker basket
Strawberry Plants Extend The Strawberry Harvest Season into Fall – 5 Easy Ways To
Bring on the Berries for Longer!
Overwintering peppers indoors
Peppers Complete Guide: How to Overwinter Pepper Plants for Bigger Yields Next Year
Trending

  • 7 Flower Seeds To Sow in November
  • Prune These Plants Now
  • Garden Gear Experts Actually Hate
  • Fall Hydrangea Pruning Guide ✂️

 1. Home
 2. Edible Gardens
 3. Vegetables
 4. Lettuce

Growing Lettuce In The Garden – How To Grow Lettuce Plants

  •  
  •  
  •  
  • Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter
  • 

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
Here’s how it works.

Lettuce Plants In The Garden
lettuce
(Image credit: lzf)
Laura Miller's avatar
By Laura Miller
last updated 26 April 2021
in Features

Growing lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is an easy and inexpensive way to put fresh
gourmet salad greens on the table. As a cool-season crop, lettuce grows well with
the cool, moist weather available in spring and fall. In cooler climates, the
lettuce growing season can also be extended year-round using an indoor hydroponic
system.

 

When to Plant Lettuce

The lettuce growing season begins in early spring and extends through fall for
northern U.S. climates. In warmer areas, such as southern Florida, lettuce can also
be grown outdoors throughout the winter. Increasing daylight hours and hot
temperatures stimulates lettuce to bolt, which makes growing lettuce more
challenging during the summer months.

 

As a cool-season crop, lettuce can be direct-seeded into the garden as soon as the
soil can be worked in the spring. If the ground is still frozen, wait until it
thaws. Lettuce can also be started or grown indoors. Try succession planting and
growing varieties of lettuce with differing maturity times to harvest lettuce
plants throughout the growing season.

You may like

  • Freshly harvested organic vegetables in basket on veg plot 8 Vegetables to
    Plant in September for a Harvest That Lasts From Fall Through Spring
  • Lettuce and kale seedlings in a cold frame Why Wait for Spring? Plant These 13
    Cold-Frame Crops in Fall for an Early Harvest
  • Vegetable garden filled with beautiful plants 10 Vegetables to Plant in October
    for Easy Crops and a Bumper Harvest

 

How to Grow Lettuce

Lettuce prefers moist, cool conditions, and you don’t even have to worry about
chilly weather because the seedlings can tolerate a light frost. In fact, these
plants grow best when temperatures are between 45 and 65 F. (7-18 C.).

Lettuce tastes more flavorful and the leaves remain tender when it grows quickly.
Prior to planting, work organic compost or high nitrogen fertilizer into the garden
soil to encourage rapid leaf growth. Lettuce prefers a soil pH between 6.2 and 6.8.

Due to its small seed size, it's better to sprinkle lettuce seed on top of fine
soil, then cover lightly with a thin layer of dirt. A small hand held seeder or
seed tape can also be used for proper spacing of plants. Avoid planting too deeply,
as lettuce requires sunlight to germinate.

To avoid dislodging newly planted seed, water by gently misting the area with a
fine spray until the soil is moist. When direct-seeding into the garden, consider
using a plastic row cover, cold frame or scrap window pane to protect the seed from
being washed away by heavy rains. For optimal growth, lettuce requires 1 to 2
inches (2.5 to 5 cm.) of rain or supplemental water per week.

Gardening tips, videos, info and more delivered right to your inbox!

Sign up for the Gardening Know How newsletter today and receive a free copy of our
e-book "How to Grow Delicious Tomatoes".

[                    ][ ]Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
[ ]Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors[Sign me up]
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy
Policy and are aged 16 or over.

Give lettuce plenty of room to mature by spacing plants 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30
cm.) apart. Planting in full sun will generate faster leaf production, but can
encourage bolting during hot weather. However, lettuce will actually thrive in a
little bit of shade too, making it great for planting between taller crops, like
tomatoes or corn, which will provide shade as the season progresses. This also
helps save on space in smaller gardens.

 

Tips for Harvesting Lettuce Plants

  • For crisper lettuce, harvest in the morning. Wash leaves in cold water and dry
    with a paper towel. Place lettuce in a plastic bag and store in the
    refrigerator.
  • Leaf lettuce can be harvested once the outer leaves reach a usable size.
    Picking the young, tender outer leaves will encourage the inner leaves to
    continue growing.
  • Harvest romaine and leaf lettuce as baby greens by cutting straight across the
    plant 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm.) above the soil level. Be sure to leave the
    basal growing point for further leaf development.
  • Harvest head lettuce (depending on the variety) when they’ve reached a suitable
    size. If you allow the lettuce to become too mature, you’ll end up with bitter
    lettuce.
  • Harvest iceberg when the head forms a tight ball and the outer leaves are pale
    green. Plants can be pulled or heads can be cut.
  • Romaine (cos) types of lettuce can be harvested by removing tender outer leaves
    or waiting until a head is formed. When removing the head, cut the plant above
    the base to encourage regrowth or remove the entire plant if regrowth is not
    desired.

Laura Miller

Laura Miller
Writer

Laura Miller has been gardening all her life. Holding a degree in Biology,
Nutrition, and Agriculture, Laura's area of expertise is vegetables, herbs, and all
things edible. She lives in Ohio.

Read more
Freshly harvested organic vegetables in basket on veg plot
Vegetables 8 Vegetables to Plant in September for a Harvest That Lasts From Fall
Through Spring
Lettuce and kale seedlings in a cold frame
Gardening How To Why Wait for Spring? Plant These 13 Cold-Frame Crops in Fall for
an Early Harvest
 
 
Vegetable garden filled with beautiful plants
Vegetables 10 Vegetables to Plant in October for Easy Crops and a Bumper Harvest
Lush vegetables grow in a community gardening plot.
Vegetables 7 Vegetables to Plant in November for a Big Harvest with Minimal Effort
(and 1 Wildcard Fruit)
 
 
Latest in Lettuce
Growing hydroponic lettuce
Lettuce How To Grow Lettuce In Water: Easy Hydroponics For Soil-Free Leaves
Year-Round
Purple lettuce
Lettuce Purple Leafy Greens To Add Color To Your Garden
 
 
Red and green lettuce growing
Lettuce 5 Red Leaf Lettuce Varieties To Spice Up Your Garden Greens
[y4u3rDQgj9]
Lettuce How To Revive Wilted Lettuce After Picking
 
 
Latest in Feature
Plant cuttings growing in water on shelf
Plant Propagation 9 Chic Propagation Stations That Will Elevate Your Space and
Bring Nature Indoors
Stanley Tucci with Rome in the background
Gardening Lifestyle Stanley Tucci’s City Garden Is Proof You Can Grow Chef-Worthy
Ingredients Anywhere
 
 
garden weeds stinging nettles and fertile garden soil
Weeds What Weeds Are Really Trying to Tell You About Your Soil – How These 11 Wild
Garden Guests Can Help You Assess and Improve Your Yard
sweet autumn clematis
Clematis Sweet Autumn Clematis Care – How to Grow This Stunning Vine (Without
Letting It Get Out of Control)
 
 
Useful links
stay in touch

  • About us
  • Contact us
  • Job Opportunities

related

  • Advertise
  • Press
  • Shop

Subscribe

  • Newsletter

 

  • About Us
  • Contact Future's experts
  • Terms and Conditions
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie Policy

[mednnv697g] Add as a preferred source on Google

Gardening Know How is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and
leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.

© Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.

