Skip to content
PlantNative.org

Recent Posts

  • Indiana Native Plants for Landscaping [with Pictures]
  • How to Plant Carrots
  • How to Grow Cabbage From Seed
  • Bloody Cranesbill (Geranium Sanguineum): How to Grow & Care
  • What is Hemlock? (Why Does Hemlock Poison?)

Most Used Categories

  • Gardening (1,793)
      □ How & Why (112)
      □ Trees (636)
          ☆ Fruit Trees (244)
          ☆ Flowering Trees (80)
          ☆ Shade Trees (59)
          ☆ Evergreen Trees (58)
  • Farming (286)
  • Native Plants (152)
  • Reviews (133)

                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
PlantNative.org                                      
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
                                                     
PlantNative.org                                      

Since 1999

  
Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Menu

  • Nurseries
  • Plants
  • Landscaping
  • Farming
  • Gardening
  • Reviews

Gardening

How to Grow Potatoes From Seed

Potatoes are among the most loved, most used vegetables around the world. And
rightfully so, because can you think of a bad-tasting dish made with them? Not
likely. This is why I think you will be happy to hear that growing potatoes is an
easy crop, even for inexperienced gardeners. If you are a fan of anything made with
this plant like me, there are a ton of intriguing potato kinds you can grow in your
home. 

You can even grow potatoes in large bags or pots on a balcony or patio without the
requirement for a plot. And they also have a long shelf life and may be prepared in a
variety of ways. What a fantastic investment! No matter how much or how little space
you have to produce them, we’ll look at what seed potatoes are, how to plant them,
and how to grow potatoes from seed correctly in this article.

Do Potatoes Actually Have Seeds?

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, bucket                                            

Yup, potatoes actually produce seeds. Like most other plants, potato plants bloom
too, but typically the blooms dry out and fall off the plant without producing fruit.
For potato plants to produce fruits, cooler temperatures and longer days are
required, therefore, you are more likely to observe potato seeds sprouting on plants
in regions like this. With that being said, potatoes such as Yukon Gold are more
likely than others to bear fruit. The phrase “true potato seed” refers to this kind.

However, in reality, seed potatoes are not even seeds. Because potato plants produce
tiny green fruits that resemble cherry tomatoes in look and size and are packed with
hundreds of seeds, but, despite having a tomato-like look, the fruit should never be
consumed. Because the hazardous solanine it contains may cause headaches, diarrhea,
cramps, comas, and even death.

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, handful                                           

This is why cultivators only use potato tubers that are intended for planting. These
potato tubers are kept from the previous harvest and carefully preserved during the
winter to keep them firm and disease-free. However, many cultivators advise buying
fresh, guaranteed disease-free seed potatoes at the start of each growing season
rather than replanting some of your produce the following year.

The reason for this is that this vegetable is inclined to many diseases. And among
these diseases are also potato scabs and potato blight, which can easily spread to
your garden or pot if you are planting your own saved tubers. However, The
disease-free status of certified seed potatoes is guaranteed, and they haven’t been
subjected to the anti-sprouting treatments typically applied to supermarket potatoes.

What Month Do You Plant Potatoes?

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, dirty                                             

Since these are strongly rooted plants, they grow best in light, loose soil that
drains well. Potatoes prefer soil that is pH 5.0 to 7.0 or slightly acidic to
neutral. However, they are prolific growers who typically adapt to unfavorable
environmental factors. That said, you can plant your seeds as soon as the soil can be
worked in the early spring. 

However, the soil temperature should still be kept in mind when planting since potato
plants won’t start to grow until the soil reaches 45 degrees Fahrenheit. So, the soil
should be moist but not completely soaked in water. Because insufficiently warm or
wet soil might cause seed potatoes to rot. Remember, for this vegetable to grow, full
sun is ideal. 

Nonetheless, potatoes can withstand a slight cold, but if you anticipate a harsh,
late-season freeze, you should give the plants some frost protection. And for optimal
production, they require 1 to 2 inches of water every week. If everything goes right,
you can sow a second crop as late as June 15 and harvest them as late as possible if
you want to increase storage durations and have a long growing season. 

Where to Plant?

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, dead                                              

Potato seeds can be planted in three different methods. In addition to being able to
be planted straight into the ground, they can also be planted in containers and
beneath straws. Rotate your crops to prevent planting them in the same location year
after year. Regardless of the method, you use to plant your seed potatoes, ensure the
location has at least six hours of direct sunlight daily. 

You should also wait to plant until the soil has warmed up and the moisture levels
are optimal. If you are planting in the ground, you should also pay close attention
to the depth and spacing of your seed potato pieces. Make a hole for each cut piece
of seed potato separately when planting it in the soil, or use a garden hoe to dig a
trench and plant numerous pieces of seed potato in rows 10 to 12 inches apart. 

The trench or hole needs to be 4 to 5 inches deep. If you intend to plant in numerous
rows, leave 18 to 24 inches between each one. When planting seed potatoes in the
ground, whether in rows or holes, you should hill your potato plants twice or three
times over the growing season with several inches of soil. The area to produce tubers
increases as potato plants are cultivated deeper.

How to Grow Potatoes From Seed in Pots and Grow Bags?

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, rebirth                                           

If you have a smaller space or no outdoor garden, and you still want to grow
potatoes, don’t worry, there are solutions for you too! Finding the appropriate
container is the first step in planting seed potatoes in a restricted space: the
larger the pot, the better for growing in containers. To develop into a full-sized
plant, each piece of seed potato requires at least 2.5 to 3 liters of potting soil. 

That means you can plant two seed potato pieces inside a container about the size of
a 5-gallon utility bucket. Also, make sure the container has drainage holes, and use
premium potting soil with fertilizer and compost that are well mixed. Additionally,
you can buy bagged compost and potting soil and combine them.

How to Grow Potatoes From Seed in Straw?

To grow seed potatoes in straw is a great and simple technique to increase your yield
with little effort. Growing in straw is the best option if you’re wondering how to
sow seed potatoes in a way that makes them simple to harvest and keeps the spuds
clean. Prepare a raised bed or an in-ground garden bed for planting before you start
to plant your seeds. Place each seed potato piece into the soil no deeper than an
inch or two. 

Cover the seed potato pieces with 5 to 6 inches of loose straw once they have been
set. As the plants develop, top the bed with additional straw until there are 8 to 10
inches of the straw total, covering all but the topmost leaves of the plants. Keep
the bed moist throughout the growing season, even though the covering of straw makes
a great mulch.

How Long Does It Take to Grow Potatoes From Seed? 

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, cycle                                             

Usually, two to three weeks after the plants have stopped flowering, baby potatoes
can be picked. Harvest should be carefully removed from the plants using gentle
digging techniques, and they will be ready to be eaten right away. Remove the largest
new ones with care, but remember to leave the smaller ones in the soil so they can
develop. Take only what you require for immediate consumption. 

However, the ones intended for storage shouldn’t be dug until two to three weeks
after the leaves have begun to fall. You can use a firm fork to dig them carefully,
and if the weather is dry, let them sit in the field unwashed for two to three days.
The skins can mature during the curing process, which is crucial for effective
storage. 

It’s also important to allow them to cure in a dry, protected space, such as a garage
or covered porch, if the weather is damp and rainy during harvest. Even though
figuring out when to harvest this vegetable might be difficult for novice gardeners,
if you know the basics, timing the harvest is easy!

How to Harvest

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, abondoned                                         

Harvesting young potatoes involves reaching into the hillside and pulling a few
tubers from each plant when the plants start to blossom, typically towards the end of
July. Instead of using a tool, however, it’s advised to perform this operation while
wearing gloves not to harm the plants. After you’ve picked a few fresh ones, you have
to reposition the dirt and create a mound around the plants.

But if you are harvesting for storage, carefully lift the root mass with a garden
fork inserted approximately a foot away from the plant. Shovels are another option.
Use a gloved hand to search the area for missed ones that might still be on the
ground. After harvesting, gently brush off any soil that has been caked on and leave
them to dry outside for about an hour. But remember to avoid washing the tubers.

How to Store

Potatoes need to go through a curing procedure before they can be stored. This
lengthens the storage life of the tubers and aids in skin thickening. They should be
laid out on newspaper, trays, or cardboard and allowed to cure for one to two weeks
in a cool, dark place with high humidity. Finding a place with good airflow is also
important.

Homegrown potatoes, especially maincrops, will keep well for many months in a cool,
frost-free location. Do not wash tubers before storing them; instead, only store
perfect ones and discard any that exhibit damage. All light must be blocked out to
prevent the onset of green and toxic ones. Also, you should regularly inspect the
crops in the store and eliminate any bad ones.

How Many Potatoes Can Single Seed Yield?

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, mew                                               

One seed potato will yield several potatoes that may be harvested, making them an
easy crop to raise. Dig straight trenches 12 cm deep and 60 cm apart after clearing
the soil of weeds. Plant seed potatoes in the spring 30 cm apart, then cover them
with dirt to fill the trench. 

Use a rake, hoe, or spade to create a mound of earth around the bases of the shoots
when they are 20 cm tall, covering the stems halfway. Earthing up is the term for
this. On a patio or balcony, you may also grow first- and second-early ones in a
sizable bag while continuously covering them with compost.

Should You Cut Seed Potatoes Before Planting?

Set your seed potatoes in a location where they will be exposed to light and
temperatures between 60 and 70 degrees F a week or two before the planting date. As a
result, the sprouting process will start. Use a sharp, clean knife to cut the larger
seed potatoes into smaller pieces a day or two before planting. 

Each item must have at least 1 or 2 eyes or buds and should be around 2 inches
square. Tiny ones can go into the soil as a whole. As a general guideline, plant them
intact if they are less than a golf ball in size. Your seed will develop a thick
callus over the wounds in about a day, helping to keep it from decaying.

Conclusion

how to g
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
how to grow potatoes from seed, pack                                              

Now that you know how to grow potatoes from seed and the dos and don’ts of it, you
are ready to get your hands dirty! Even though you can find them in reasonably priced
stores, freshly dug ones will surely have a different flavor. And as we discussed,
working with this vegetable is not hard at all, and the results of your efforts will
be significantly met. Just decide on the right planting method for yourself, do some
planning and shopping, and you are ready to go. 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

You may also be interested in:

How to Grow Onions From Seed?

How to Grow Garlic From Seed?

How to Grow a Pineapple From Seed?

    

Post navigation

How to Grow Lavender From Seed
The Best Ground Cover Plants to Grow in Michigan

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
         [                                             ]
Comment *[                                             ]

Name * [                              ]

Email * [                              ]

Website [                              ]

[ ] Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

[Post Comment] 

 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
 [                                             ] 
Δ[                                             ] 

Search
[                    ]Search
About Us

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
[svg]                                   [storefront-1]                          

Located in a little red house. We have kept a national database of native plant
nurseries for the past 25 years, and take great pride in promoting our natural
heritage.

  • Evergreen Trees
  • Farming
  • Flowering Trees
  • Fruit Trees
  • Gardening
  • How & Why
  • How-To
  • Native Plants
  • Nurseries
  • Privacy Trees
  • Reviews
  • Shade Trees
  • Trees
  • Tropical Trees

Related Posts

                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
plant carrots                                                                                  
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
plant carrots                                                                                  

How to Plant Carrots

October 25, 2024

                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
Growing Cabbage                                                                                
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
                                                                                               
Growing Cabbage                                                                                

How to Grow Cabbage From Seed

October 25, 2024
Copyright All Rights Reserved 2024
 

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Privacy Policy

 
