Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Radishes: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
a bunch of red radishes with greens in a bunch                                                                                      
Photo Credit
Annette McCarthy
Botanical Name
Raphanus sativus
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Neutral
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Radishes

Catherine Boeckmann
September 25, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Radishes are planted in the cool temperatures of spring and autumn, and this hardy
root vegetable is ready to harvest in mere weeks. Learn how easy it is to
grow radishes.

Speedy radishes can be grown almost anywhere: between larger vegetables, around
soon-to-finish crops, or in pots—and will grow peppery roots both early or late in
the season. Try some for yourself, including delicious winter radishes to sow from
late summer. In this short video, we’ll tell you all you need to grow
them successfully.

What’s the most opportunistic crop you could possibly grow? For me, it’s the humble,
lowly radish—or rather, the rousing, ravishing radish! Squeeze a sneaky row or two
between larger vegetables. Sow them around crops that are about to finish. Grow them
in pots, or squeeze in an extravagantly early or late harvest of these peppery roots.
They’re super fast, super flexible—oh, and super yummy! So let’s crack on and
sow some!

About Radishes

Radishes are an annual root vegetable and a member of the Brassicaceae or cabbage
family, which includes broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, kale, collards, and, as the
name suggests, horseradish. The entire plant is edible—from root to leaves—and can be
enjoyed raw or cooked. (See Cooking notes below.)

Seeds can be planted in both the spring and the fall, but sowing should be suspended
when warm temperatures arrive (70 degrees or higher); this causes radishes to bolt,
making them essentially useless. Otherwise, radishes are one of
the easiest vegetables to grow. 

Because radishes mature so quickly, you can sow them anywhere there is an empty space
or sow in between rows of other vegetables such as carrots or beets. Radishes also
happen to make excellent companion plants to help deter pests from other vegetables.

                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
 a bunch of radishes                                                             

Read Next

  • 5 Fast-Growing Vegetables to Try
  • 10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather
  • You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed

Planting

Because of their size and speed, radishes may be grown just about anywhere. But ready
to enjoy in as little as four weeks and taking up minimal space, perhaps their best
use is as a fill-in crop, either between or within rows of slow-to-germinate
vegetables such as parsnip, or as a quick, in-and-out crop right at the start or end
of the growing season.

Radishes prefer full sun but grow well in partial shade, too, and in hot climates,
will prefer full shade in the height of summer. Choose a sunny spot that gets at
least six hours of sun a day. If radishes are planted in too much shade, or even
where neighboring vegetable plants shade them, they will put all their energy into
producing larger leaves. 

Keep the soil moist, and you’ll be rewarded with clusters of mildly peppery roots in
next to no time.

Till the soil (roots do not grow well in compacted soil) and remove any rocks. If the
soil is clay, mix in some organic matter to loosen and improve drainage. If you’re
planting longer varieties (such as ‘White Icicle”), till to a depth of 8 inches.

When to Plant Radishes

  • For a spring planting, sow seeds 4 to 6 weeks before the last spring frost.
  • For a fall crop, sow seeds 4 to 6 weeks before the first fall frost.

 See local frost dates here.

Sowing Radishes Early in Plug Trays

Begin sowing under cover from late winter, either directly into containers of potting
soil, into greenhouse borders, or into plug trays of general-purpose potting mix.

Fill plug trays with potting mix, firm down, then sow a pinch of three to five seeds
per module. Cover with a little more of the potting mix, then water. If it’s
especially cold, you’ll need to germinate them indoors and then move them back into a
greenhouse or cold frame as soon as the seedlings appear. After a couple of weeks of
sheltered growth, and once the seedlings have filled out their modules, they’ll be
ready to plant out under row covers or hoop houses.

Plant into soil earlier enriched with well-rotted compost or manure and raked to a
fine tilth. Remove the clusters of seedlings from their modules, then dibber a hole
for each plug. Drop in the plug and firm it into position so each cluster’s about 6in
or 15cm apart in both directions. Cover the seedlings with row cover or horticultural
fleece, properly held down at the edges, until the weather warms up.

How to Plant Radishes

Of course, sowing radishes directly where they are to grow is the easiest way to
start them off. As cool-season crops, some radishes can germinate at temperatures as
low as 41 Fahrenheit or five degrees Celsius. Sow from very early spring, initially
under row covers or hoop houses, spacing rows about 8in or 20cm apart. Sow thinly
along the row—ideally, so seeds end up spaced around half an inch or one centimeter
apart. Water if it’s dry, and then, about a week after germination, thin the
seedlings to leave them an inch or 2cm apart within the row.

  • Add organic matter before sowing, but also avoid fresh manure or fertilizers high
    in nitrogen; overly rich soil will encourage lush foliage at the expense of
    radish roots.
  • Radish seeds have a fairly long shelf life. Don’t be afraid to plant radish seeds
    that are up to 5 years old. All may not germinate, but you’ll have plenty
    that will.
  • Direct-sow seeds outdoors about 1/2-inch deep and cover loosely with soil. Space
    1 inch apart in rows 12 inches apart. Water seeds thoroughly, down to 6
    inches deep.
  • Sow another round of seeds every 10 days or so while the weather is still cool
    for a continuous harvest of radishes in the late spring and early summer.

Grow Some Radishes for Winter

Many hardy radishes can be sown towards the end of summer to give an autumn or early
winter harvest of roots. Sowing regular red, round or white-tipped radishes into
containers is a great way to extend the season—by simply bringing pots under cover
when the weather turns cold.

Another option is to grow bigger winter or Asian varieties of radish, which naturally
prefer cooler temperatures. The most popular is the daikon or Japanese mooli radish.
Look out for Chinese and Korean varieties, too—all with a mild flavor that is ideal
for salads but also great in soups and stews. Then there’s the stunning watermelon
radish or the chunky, spicy Spanish Black radish, whose peppery tang holds up well
in stir-fries.

Winter radishes are leafier than their summer cousins. The spicy leaves may be used
like spinach, wilted into hot dishes, or even whizzed up in a pesto.

Sow winter radishes a little further apart, so rows are at least a foot or 30cm
distant, then thin the seedlings to leave at least a couple of inches or 5cm between
each plant.

Check out this video to learn how to plant radishes:

Growing

Thinning Radishes

“Thinning” is probably the most important step in growing radishes. Once the
seedlings are 2 inches tall or about a week old, it’s important to thin radishes to 2
to 3-inch spacings. Crowded radishes do not grow well, and you’ll end up getting
small, shriveled, inedible roots.

To thin, just snip the greens at the soil line. The thinnings are edible, so add them
to a salad! Or, if thinnings have been carefully extracted with roots, leaves, and
stem intact, replant them. Transplants might be a bit stressed, but they
should recover.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[radish]                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

Photo credit: Larisa Lofitskaya/Shutterstock

Watering Radishes

  • Consistent, even moisture is key. Don’t let it dry out, or you’ll get pithy,
    pungent roots, but don’t let it get waterlogged, or the roots will rot. A drip
    irrigation system is a great way to achieve this. 
  • Mulch the radishes with compost enriched with wood ashes to help retain moisture
    in dry conditions as well as keep root maggots at bay.
  • Weed often; weeds will quickly crowd out radishes.

Types

There are both “spring” and “winter” radishes. Note: the small round varieties do not
tolerate heat as well as the longer types so plant the small types first in early
spring before mid-size. In general, we find that smaller radishes are milder in
flavor, and the larger varieties are spicier. 

  • ‘Burpee White’: spring variety; small type; heirloom radish with white crisp
    flesh; mild flavor
  • ‘Champion’: spring variety; small type; bright scarlet with firm, crisp white
    flesh; mild flavor
  • ‘Cherry Belle’: small type; round, red with white flesh; heirloom radish; crisp,
    light flavor
  • ‘German Giant’: spring variety, red baseball-size; never gets too hot; sweet
    and mild
  • ‘French Breakfast’: spring, late-maturing type can tolerate moderate heat;
    heirloom radish with 3-inch red roots, oblong shape, mild flavor
  • ‘White Icicle’: late spring, cylindrical white roots up to 5-inches long; can
    tolerate moderate heat; heirloom; mild-flavored with hints of peppery taste
  • ‘Daikon’: winter radish; grows to 14 inches long; best grown in cooler climates
    or during the cooler ends of the growing season; crisp and snappy taste
  • ‘Spanish Black’: winter radish; large 3 to 4 inch turnip-shaped globes have
    crisp, pungent, spicy pure-white flesh; great for storage
  • ‘Watermelon’: winter radish; an heirloom Daikon radish variety with striking
    white skin and bright red inners; mild flavor with a light peppery tang.

Harvesting

The biggest mistake gardeners make with spring radishes is leaving them in the ground
past their maturity; then, they will get tough and taste starchy. Winter radishes, on
the other hand, can be kept in the ground for a few weeks after they mature if the
weather is cool. Finish the harvest before frost. 

  • To harvest, check your seed packet! Different types of radishes have different
    growth times. Some varieties are pulled as soon as 3 weeks after planting, when
    roots are approximately 1 inch in diameter. Pull one out as a test. 
  • Harvest roots as soon as they have reached their final size. Don’t delay, as they
    can go from crisp and crunchy to woody and excessively spicy within a matter of
    days. Lift the biggest roots each time you harvest, so the remainder can continue
    to swell.
  • Another good sign that your radish root is doing well is that the green growth
    above the soil is 6 to 8 inches tall. 
  • Finally, you should see or feel the “shoulder” or top part of the radish pushing
    up against the topsoil.

If some radishes bolt before you have a chance to harvest them, leave a few to
develop seedpods. The seedpods, which look like tiny bean or pea pods, are actually
quite tasty in a salad.

How to Store Radishes

  • Cut off the tops and the thin root tail, wash the radishes, and dry them
    thoroughly. Store in produce or zip-top bags in the crisper drawer
    of the refrigerator.
  • Radish greens can be stored separately for up to 3 days. Put them in a separate
    produce bag with a dry paper towel.

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
pile of radishes, fresh from the garden                                         

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • For hoarseness, swallow slowly the juice of radishes. –18th-century remedy.
  • Got a mosquito bite? Apply radish juice to take away the sting and itching.

Pests/Diseases

                              Radish Pests and Diseases
 Pest/    Type                Symptoms                     Control/Prevention
Disease
                                                    Use collars around seedling
Cabbage          Wilted/stunted plants; off-color   stems; monitor adults with yellow
  root   Insects leaves; larvae feeding on roots    sticky traps; use row covers;
maggots                                             destroy crop residue; till soil
                                                    in fall; rotate crops
                                                    Handpick; use row covers; add
                 Leaves have large, ragged holes or native plants to invite
Cabbage          are skeletonized; heads bored;     beneficial insects; grow
 worms   Insects dark green excrement; yellowish    companion plants (especially
                 eggs laid singly on leaf           thyme); spray Bacillus
                 undersides                         thuringiensis (a bacteria that
                                                    affects larvae and grubs)
                 Wilted/stunted plants; yellow      Destroy infected plants; solarize
Clubroot Fungus  leaves; roots appear swollen/      soil; maintain soil pH of around
                 distorted                          7.2; disinfect tools; rotate
                                                    crops
  Flea                                              Use row covers; mulch heavily;
beetles  Insect  Numerous tiny holes in leaves      add native plants to invite
                                                    beneficial insects
                 Chalk-white blisters mainly on
                 leaf undersides; small,            Destroy infected plants; choose
 White           yellow-green spots or blisters,    resistant varieties; weed;
  rust   Fungus  sometimes in circular arrangement, destroy crop residue; rotate
                 on upper leaf surfaces; possible   crops
                 distortion or galls; stems may
                 also be infected

Recipes

Red Radish Soup
Radish Slaw
Easy Kimchi

Cooking Notes

Many folks do not realize that radishes have uses well beyond the salad garnish!
 Radishes are great for pickling with carrots or to be fermented into kimchi. The
small types can be snacked on whole (with their green tops as handles), or dipped
into salted butter and lime. Of course, radishes can also be grated into cabbage
slaws to add some flavor.

Radishes can also be cooked. You can roast halved radishes until buttery and tender.
And the green tops can be sauteéd in olive oil with some garlic or even made
into pesto. 

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Embedded thumbnail for 5 Fast-Growing Vegetables to Try                                                                             

5 Fast-Growing Vegetables to Try

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[spinach_by_deyan_georgiev_ss]                                          

10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a hand with seeds from a seed packer, with starter pots and potting soil

You Can Do It! The 10 Easiest Vegetables to Grow From Seed

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
White frost crystals on Brussels Sprouts plant during winter            

Brr! Protecting Your Garden From Frost

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[napa-cabbage-2192664_1920]                                             

Best Vegetables to Plant for a Fall Garden

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
companion planting guide for the garden. cucumbers, tomatoes, carrots, l

Companion Planting Chart and Guide for Vegetable Gardens

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Christie (not verified)

7 months 3 weeks ago

I'm confused by the two opposing messages. Planting 3-4 seeds in plugs and then
planting them in their groupings into the garden as a whole vs. planting seeds
individually, spaced 1 cm apart? help! LOL which is it?

  • Reply

Rob (not verified)

2 years 10 months ago

Like many planting instructions, this says to plant 1 inch apart and then thin to 2
inches apart. Why not just plant 2 inches apart to begin with? Is there a reason for
this? Do they need to be closer initially? Just curious.

  • Reply

The Editors

2 years 10 months ago

In reply to Like many planting… by Rob (not verified)

Hi Rob, Good question. Not all seeds germinate. So we plant extra and then see what
comes up, thinning to the right spacing so the plants won’t be overcrowded. All, when
seeds are tiny, they are hard to handle so sometimes folks scatter the seeds instead
of planting one-by-one and then thin.

  • Reply

Donna (not verified)

2 years 10 months ago

I’m surprised there’s no mention of cabbage butterflies. Here in San Francisco,
cabbage butterflies area big problem for cruciferous vegetables. Their caterpillars
destroy the leaves! Bird netting seems to help.

  • Reply

The Editors

2 years 10 months ago

In reply to I’m surprised there’s no… by Donna (not verified)

Thanks for sharing your experience! We’ve added info on cabbage worms above.

  • Reply

DanL (not verified)

2 years 10 months ago

In reply to I’m surprised there’s no… by Donna (not verified)

Same here in Iowa. Had to keep checking for larvae almost everyday. Will be using
netting this year!

  • Reply

Geri Reski (not verified)

2 years 10 months ago

No luck here…consumed by aphids. However, have successfully grown them in the past.
So frustrating!!!

  • Reply

Alan Perry (not verified)

2 years 10 months ago

Great starter crop for kids......... Colorful, and fast growing. Along with carrots,
you'll teach them all about planting, watering, weeding, and the rewards like eating
something you grew yourself. Dad started me out with Batchelor buttons and zinnias
for color. Sixty years later I'm still hooked. Thanks Dad!

  • Reply

Marlene Russell (not verified)

3 years 5 months ago

My radishes will not form bulbs. But they have thick stocks and make the radishes
tough and not eatable and are very small.

  • Reply

A ROCKWELL (not verified)

3 years 9 months ago

Radish greens can be eaten in salads or steamed; use the smallest leaves u can find
they are more tender;

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
