Skip to main content
     
Global

  • Get Almanac's Daily Updates
  • Extended Forecasts
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
The Old 
Monday, December 23, 2024
Menu
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
Almanac Logo                           
Main navigation

  • Weather Weather sub-navigation
      □ 60-Day Long-Range Forecast
      □ 5-Day Forecast
      □ WINTER Forecast
      □ Christmas Travel Map
      □ Snow on Christmas?
      □ Frost Dates
      □ Weather History
      □ Weather Store
  • Gardening Gardening sub-navigation
      □ Planting Dates for Spring and Fall
      □ Grow Guide Library
      □ Robin's Garden Blog
      □ Pests & Diseases
      □ Vegetable Gardening
      □ Flower Gardening
      □ Houseplants
      □ Monthly Garden To-Do
      □ Garden Planner
      □ Garden Store
  • Moon & Sun Moon & Sun sub-navigation
      □ December Moon
      □ December Night Sky
      □ Bob's Sky Blog
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Next Full Moon?
      □ Sunrise & Set Times
      □ Moonrise & Set Times
      □ Visible Planets
      □ Bright Stars Tonight
      □ Meteor Showers
      □ Equinox and Solstice
      □ Moon & Sun Store
  • Calendar Calendar sub-navigation
      □ Holidays & Events
      □ First Day of Winter
      □ Moon Phase Calendar
      □ Planting Calendar
      □ Best Days Calendar
      □ Fishing Calendar
      □ DECEMBER Horoscope
      □ The Zodiac and YOU
      □ Mercury Retrograde
      □ Calendar Store
  • Food Food sub-navigation
      □ Find A Recipe
      □ Holiday Recipes
      □ Baking
      □ Canning and Pickling
      □ Grilling Recipes
      □ Kitchen Store
  • Store
  • Search
  • Newsletter Sign Up
  • Where to Buy
  • Contact Us

Search API form
Search [               ]
[Search]
Mobile Menu Social Buttons
Almanac Header Cover

                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
Get the 2024 Get Your Copy!

Order Your Almanac Today!

Breadcrumb

 1. Home
 2. Gardening
 3. Growing Guides

How to Grow Turnips: The Complete Guide

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
[turnips_shutterstock_733782379]                                                                                                    
Caption

Turnips are a cool-weather root vegetable that germinate in only a few days.

Photo Credit
Elena Koromyslova/Shutterstock
Botanical Name
Brassica rapa (Rapifera Group)
Plant Type
Vegetable
Sun Exposure
Full Sun
Soil pH
Slightly Acidic to Neutral
Subhead

Planting, Growing, and Harvesting Turnips

Catherine Boeckmann
September 5, 2024
    
Prin
 
Sign up for daily gardening advice and tips
Email Address [                                                            ]
[Sign Up] 
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
Almanac Garden Planner

The Almanac Garden Planner - Use It Free for 7 Days!

Plan your 2025 garden with our award-winning Garden Planner.

Try Now

Turnips are cool-weather root vegetables that can be grown in both spring and fall.
They mature quickly, and the bright greens and roots can both be enjoyed. Learn more
about this ancient root vegetable—all the way from planting to harvesting.

About Turnips

Turnips will grow in spring or fall weather but do not like the hot summer months.
(Note that an autumn crop seeded in late summer is usually sweeter and more tender
than a spring crop, and pests are less of a problem.)

Turnips are seeded directly into the garden; they do not transplant well. Plus, they
germinate in only a few days. Within a month, their greens are ready to harvest, and
within a second month, the swollen roots are ready to be taken up.

How do you cook turnips? Turnips can be eaten raw, baked, boiled, roasted, or mashed.
Prepare turnips as you would carrots. Or, try them as an alternative to potatoes; we
enjoy a turnip gratin or a turnip soufflé.

Read Next

  • 10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather
  • Fall Vegetable Garden Planning: Choosing the Best Plants for Autumn Growing
  • Fast-Growing Vegetables to Plant in Summer

Planting

Turnips grow best in full sun when temperatures range from 40° to 75°F. As soon as
the garden can be worked, loosen the soil to a depth of 12 to 15 inches. Mix in 2 to
4 inches of aged manure and/or compost. Add more to heavy, clay soil to
improve drainage.

When to Plant Turnips

  • For a late spring harvest, sow turnip seeds about 2 to 3 weeks before the average
    last spring frost date.
  • For an autumn harvest, sow turnips in late summer after summer crops of onions,
    squash, beans, or sweet corn.
  • For a later autumn harvest, sow seeds in early autumn.

How to Plant Turnips

  • Before planting, mix in a nice low organic fertilizer (such as a 5-5-5) about 12
    inches into the soil. Avoid over-fertilizing with nitrogen, or you’ll get leafy
    greens at the expense of a big root. Avoid high-nitrogen fertilizers.
  • Sow seeds directly in the soil ¼ to ½ of an inch deep, 1 inch apart, in rows 12
    to 18 inches apart.
  • You can also scatter turnip seeds and thin the seedlings later.
  • Cover seeds with not more than ½ an inch of soil.
  • Water well and consistently.
  • Protect spring crops from pests with row covers at planting.

Growing

  • Once seedlings are 4 inches high, thin them to 4 to 6 inches apart. Crowding can
    result in small or malformed roots. If you grow them any closer than 4 inches,
    they’re not going to grow.
  • Keep the beds weed-free, but be careful of disturbing the root of young turnips.
  • Mulch heavily to retain moisture and suppress weeds.
  • Turnips do not need much care, but consistent soil moisture is important. Water
    regularly to keep the soil lightly moist; one inch per week should prevent roots
    from becoming tough and bitter.

How to Avoid Bolting

Turnips are hardy biennials, even though we treat them as annuals. They naturally
flower and go to seed in the second year. In the first year, they sometimes may bolt
(flower and go to seed early) due to stress caused by extreme temperatures (cold or
hot) or lack of nutrients or water. Such stresses can also result in little or no
root growth, a root that forms above ground, or greens only.

Be sure to pick turnips before temperatures get into the 80s (F) to avoid bolting.

Types

Many turnips are grown not for the root itself but for the turnip greens, which can
be cooked or used raw in salads. Younger turnip greens will not be as bitter as
mature leaves. If you are growing turnips primarily for their greens, almost any
turnip variety will do.

For roots, try these …

  • ‘Gold Ball’: yellow skin, soft, yellow flesh; harvest at 3 inches in diameter for
    maximum sweetness (will grow to 4 to 5 inches)
  • ‘Just Right’: pure white roots, delicious greens; extremely cold-tolerant; stores
    well; not recommended for a spring crop, as it tends to bolt early
  • ‘Purple Top White Globe’: delectable leaves; great for an extended production of
    greens; roots have purple shoulders; heirloom
  • ‘Golden Globe’: roots with amber skin; firm, crisp, sweet flesh; tasty tops.

Harvesting

  • Harvest greens when turnips are small; the leaves taste best when young and
    tender. Cut leaves 2 inches above the base; they may grow back. Harvest just a
    few at a time, if also growing for roots.
  • Harvest roots at any time; however, small, young turnips are more tender. Often
    early types are harvested after about 5 weeks. Main crop types after 6 to
    10 weeks.
  • For fall turnips, consider harvesting after one or two light frosts (but before a
    hard freeze) for a sweeter taste. 
  • Mulch to harvest later in the season and to protect from a hard freeze.

How to Store Turnips

  • Store for up to 3 or 4 months in a cool (32° to 38°F), dark place such as a root
    cellar, or store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
  • If storing in the refrigerator, keep turnips in a perforated plastic bag. It’s
    important that the turnips do not dry out, but also that they do not become moldy
    from too much moisture.
  • To freeze: Peel, wash, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, blanch for 3 minutes, cool
    immediately in cold water, and drain. Pack into containers, label, and freeze.

Gardening Products

Wit and Wisdom

  • “Turnips like a dry bed but a wet head.”
  • Turnips are often confused with rutabagas because they are similar, and people
    like to plant them together. The two root vegetables grow well under the same
    conditions, but rutabagas take about four weeks longer to mature.
  • In 19th-century Ireland, Halloween jack-o’-lanterns were carved from turnips, not
    pumpkins. Lit by a candle inside, the grotesque faces were intended to scare away
    demons and evil spirits. Learn more about the origins of halloween traditions.

Pests/Diseases

                              Turnip Pests and Diseases
  Pest/    Type             Symptoms                      Control/Prevention
 Disease
                                                 Grow companion plants; knock off
                                                 with water spray; apply insecticidal
                 Misshapen/yellow leaves; sticky soap; put banana or orange peels
 Aphids   Insect “honeydew” (excrement); sooty,  around plants; wipe leaves with a 1
                 black mold                      to 2 percent solution of dish soap
                                                 (no additives) and water every 2 to
                                                 3 days for 2 weeks; add native
                                                 plants to invite beneficial insects
                 Yellow, V-shape areas on leaf   Destroy infected plants; choose
                 edges that brown and progress   resistant varieties; provide good
Black rot Insect toward leaf center; leaves      drainage; remove plant debris;
                 eventually collapse; stem cross rotate crops
                 sections reveal blackened veins
                                                 Use collars around seedling stems;
 Cabbage         Wilted/stunted plants;          monitor adults with yellow sticky
  root    Insect off-color leaves; larvae        traps; use row covers; destroy crop
 maggots         feeding on roots                residue; till soil in fall; rotate
                                                 crops
                 Wilted/stunted plants; yellow   Destroy infected plants; solarize
Clubroot  Fungus leaves; roots appear swollen/   soil; maintain soil pH of around
                 distorted                       7.2; disinfect tools; rotate crops
                 Yellow, angular spots on upper
  Downy          leaf surfaces that turn brown;  Remove plant debris; choose
 mildew   Fungus white/purple/gray cottony       resistant varieties; ensure good air
                 growth on leaf undersides only; circulation; avoid overhead watering
                  defoliation
  Flea                                           Use row covers; mulch heavily; add
 beetles  Insect Numerous tiny holes in leaves   native plants to invite beneficial
                                                 insects
                 White spots on upper leaf       Destroy infected leaves or plants;
                 surfaces expand to flour-like   choose resistant varieties; plant in
 Powdery  Fungus coating over entire leaves;     full sun, if possible; ensure good
 mildew          foliage may yellow/die;         air circulation; spray plants with 1
                 distortion/stunting of leaves   teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1
                                                 quart water; destroy crop residue
                 Yellow/white blotches on        Destroy crop residue; handpick (bugs
                 leaves; shriveled seeds; eggs,  emit odor, wear gloves); destroy
Stinkbugs Insect often keg-shape, in clusters on eggs; spray nymphs with insecticidal
                 leaf undersides                 soap; use row covers; weed; till
                                                 soil in fall
                 Chalk-white blisters mainly on
                 leaf undersides; small,
                 yellow-green spots or blisters, Destroy infected plants; choose
  White   Fungus sometimes in circular           resistant varieties; weed; destroy
  rust           arrangement, on upper leaf      crop residue; rotate crops
                 surfaces; possible distortion
                 or galls; stems may also be
                 infected

Recipes

Beet and Pink Turnip Salad
Turnip Souffle
Turnip Soup
Eastham Turnip Pie
Turnip Creme Brulee
Turnip Soufflé

Cooking Notes

If you’re wondering how to cook turnips, you’re not alone. Both the turnip greens and
roots are very nutritious. Turnip roots should generally be peeled and sliced before
using them. Both turnip roots and turnip greens are usually cooked, though they can
be eaten raw if young and tender.

Vegetables
About The Author

Catherine Boeckmann

                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
[IMG_0365]                        
Catherine Boeckmann loves nature, stargazing, and gardening so it’s not surprising
that she and The Old Farmer’s Almanac found each other. She leads digital content for
the Almanac website, and is also a certified master gardener in the state of Indiana.
Read More from Catherine Boeckmann
[]      
 

ADVERTISEMENT

Advertisement
More Like This
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[spinach_by_deyan_georgiev_ss]                                          

10 Fast-Growing Vegetables for Cool Weather

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Embedded thumbnail for Fall Vegetable Garden Planning: Choosing the Best Plants for Autumn Growing                                  

Fall Vegetable Garden Planning: Choosing the Best Plants for Autumn Growing

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[radishes-4266807_1920_full_width]                                      

Fast-Growing Vegetables to Plant in Summer

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[spinach-2310134_1920_full_width]                                       

Asian Greens: 7 Fast-Growing Greens for Fall!

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
a bunch of red radishes with greens in a bunch                          

How to Grow Radishes: The Complete Guide

                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
[napa-cabbage-2192664_1920]                                             

Best Vegetables to Plant for a Fall Garden

                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
[gardening-club-badge-postroll]                                                                                                                                                           

ADVERTISEMENT

Comments
Add a Comment

Ralph (not verified)

11 months 1 week ago

What moon phase is best for turnips to have good leafs and roots

  • Reply

The Editors

11 months ago

In reply to What moon phase is best for… by Ralph (not verified)

That’s a bit complicated. According to some traditions, if you will be harvesting
turnip roots, a belowground crop, you would want to plant when the Moon is waning
(between full and new), especially between full and last quarter Moons. But, if you
are interested in harvesting turnip greens, which are an aboveground crop, you would
want to plant when the Moon is waxing (between new and full), especially between new
and first quarter Moons. Hope this helps!

  • Reply

Peggy (not verified)

3 years 2 months ago

Peel the turnips before cutting up and blanching. As far a I know..they should,always
be peeled.

  • Reply

The Editors

3 years 2 months ago

In reply to Preparing turnips for freezing by Peggy (not verified)

Thanks, Peggy. Yes, if you plan to freeze turnips: Wash, peel and cut into 1/2-inch
cubes. Water blanch for 2 minutes. Cool promptly in cold water and drain. Pack into
containers, leaving 1/2-inch headspace. Seal and freeze.

  • Reply

Wren (not verified)

3 years 6 months ago

Hello! I'm looking to plant a fall crop of turnips so that they can be tucked into
the root cellar for the winter. I live in zone 6a, and by the end of summer, it's
still pretty hot here (80's-90's and bone-dry!) by August. What's the hottest
temperatures these guys can stand and still germinate? We usually get snow after only
after December, so I think I'd have plenty of time for them to mature. Thanks so
much--your website is one of my favorites to consult for gardening.

  • Reply

dave (not verified)

4 years 3 months ago

I planted a row of turnips for the first time. It was early spring and the greens
looked wonderful but there are no, zero bulbs. Just a root. The soil is loose,
compost added and full sunlight most of the day. Any suggestions from this
disappointed urban farmer?

  • Reply

The Editors

3 years 10 months ago

In reply to turnips by dave (not verified)

Hi Dave, We’re sorry to hear this. Turnips have problems in excessive heat and
compact osil but sounds like neither were an issue. We wonder if your compost-heavy
soil had too much nitrogen. Lots of nitrogen will result in plenty of leafy growth
but poor root growth. We would add some more phosphorus, like bone meal, to the soil
if you try again. 

  • Reply

Elle (not verified)

5 years 6 months ago

My turnips are beautiful, but they don't taste very good. Is it just because they are
spring turnips? Can I add something to the soil that will make them sweeter?

  • Reply

The Editors

3 years 10 months ago

In reply to Turnip question by Elle (not verified)

Turnips do taste better when they’re an autumn crop. They’re also sweeter when young
and tender. They taste more like a potato when older. 

For sweeter turnips, plant in late summer or early fall and leave them in the ground
beyond a light frost and they’ll taste even sweeter.

Also, raw turnips can have a bitter taste if consumed raw (for some folks) but
they’ll smell and taste sweet upon cooking them properly, much like beets (but
less earthy).

  • Reply

Natasha (not verified)

5 years 7 months ago

Hi, how many turnip seeds should I plant in order to harvest half a sack of turnips?
And, how much space do I need if I want to harvest half a sack of turnips?
(I am going to try out an old story/gardening anecdote that is about a hundred years
old).
(I don't know the size of the sack, by the way. I am hoping an old farmer will know,
back then, years ago, what is meant by half a sack). (Like how they know what a
bushel and a peck are).

  • Reply

  • More Comments

ADVERTISEMENT

                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
The Old Farmer's Store                             
ADVERTISEMENT
Our Brands

  • The Old Farmer’s Almanac for Kids
  • Yankee Magazine
  • Family Tree Magazine
  • NH Business Review
  • New Hampshire Magazine
  • Yankee Custom Marketing

Resources

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Free Daily Newsletter
  • Webcam
  • Advertise with Us
  • Media Relations
  • Sell the Almanac
  • Where to Buy
  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Cookie List
  • Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information

Connect with Us
     
Footer Info

©2024 Yankee Publishing Inc., An Employee-Owned Company
1121 Main Street | P.O. Box 520 | Dublin, NH 03444

Q
