MRM here.  There are many types of grains, and some types of plants that may not
be considered grains in some contexts.  I'll be focusing on these few:
	barley ;
	corn (dent) ;
	corn (sweet) ;
	flax ;
	oats ;
	rice (upland varieties) ; and
	wheat (spring varieties).

I will not be focusing on other grains or seeds in this manual, as I am not
currently growing them.

	Barley.
This is considred a very easy grain to grow.  It produces many kernals per head,
and can grow in poorer soil than wheat.  It also has a shorter growing season.
It grows best in well-drained soil, ph ~7.0.  Adding wood ash will increase
alkalinity of soil.  Germination requires adequate moisture, though excessive
moisture can lead to disease and poor growth.  Ideal soil temperature for
planting is between 41 and 50 Fahrenheit.
	Planting:  Plow to a depth of 6" and remove weeds and debris.  Work nitrogen
fertilizer and hummus into the soil.  Broadcast seed so there's roughly 25 seed
per square foot, and rake about 1-2" of soil over top.
	As the barley grows, do try to prevent drought.


	Wheat (Spring).
First off:  spring and winter wheat are two distinct types of plant.  Winter
wheat is grown in milder climes, and requires vernalization (experiencing winter
after sprouting) in order to produce seed.  Spring wheat varieties do not require
vernalization in order to produce seed.  Got it?
	Spring wheat should be planted in the early spring, as soon as possible.  It
can tolerate frost.  Aim for March to early April.  According to modern farming
techniques, it is best planted after soybeans (wheat loves nitrogen).  It's good
practice to fertilize wheat fields before planting.
	Spring wheat matures by late summer.  If planted late, expect fewer and
smaller kernals.  As it turns yellow, and while it is still in the ground, begin
gathering the heads together into bunches (carful not to uproot the plants).  Tie
string (or wheat straw) around these sheaves of wheat.  Not only will this make
harvesting easier later on, but it will help prevent heavier heads from bowing to
the ground where infection may occur.
